The Prime Directive:


The prime directive of civilization is to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. The goal is to organize an iterative civilization, which treats human civilization like an engineering problem.


The Exponential Renaissance and Techno Imperialism
Excerpt from 2500:


The Exponential Renaissance, beginning in the 21st century, was the transformative period during which human civilization transitioned from operating under the constraints of human nature to operating under engineering principles enabled by the manufacture of labor and intelligence at an industrial scale.








The inputs: Mass, energy, labor, and intelligence.
Are fed into a system: Economic, financial, scientific, military, political, legal, regulatory, 
            cultural, religious, belief & identity, and world view & attitudes systems 
            and institutions.
        To produce the civilizational outputs: Science, production, and human well-being. 
Then have a feedback loop of measuring the outputs in real-time, then use that data to change the inputs and systems to improve the outputs. This iterative systems approach is a tried and true method. Engineers use it to make better products, scientists use it to conduct experiments, and so we can use it to improve human civilization. Conducting our civilization using scientific and engineering principles, rather than the insanity we are doing now, would be one of the best ways to improve mankind. 
        This document proposes why labor and resources are the inputs, the systems and institutions make up the system, and science, production, and human well-being are the outputs for human civilization. This document also goes over how the civilizations that inadvertently pursued the prime directive won, the broad patterns and rhythms of human history, human nature, why the world is in its current state of affairs today, a pragmatic application of an iterative systems approach to improve our current civilization, and a techno-optimist vision of the future. 






/////////////////////Notes until I actually finish this document/////////////////////////////////////
2/5/26
Viable industries:
Helping companies replace as much of themselves with ai and robots as possible.
Digitizing the world, letting Ai control robots and systems on its own.
* Elon’s customer service revenue stream


Reindustrialization: Mining/refining/logistics/Manufacturing/Energy










2/4/26
2025 will go down as my disaster year, it was my worst here productively and financially. What did I even do? I didn’t accomplish anything, literally nothing. I took my sweet ass time making the nerf turret, did nothing the entire summer, like I didn’t do anything or accomplish anything. And I made the dumbest trades and fumbled all the good ones. But you know what, maybe everyone needs a year like that, so they can look back on it and swear to never do that again. In fact, what did I even do this month in January? I didn’t do much either. It’s parasitic, day after day, you don’t feel like you’re doing anything bad but in fact you are wasting time, wasting your precious precious youth on nothing. I’m over it, I’m done wasting days. Getting close to running out of money is the only reason why I’m in a state of urgency right now, it’s the only reason why I’m not screwing around. Unfortunately I am just genetically like this, I won’t do shit unless there is a fire under my ass, it’s just the way I am. If I didn’t lose my money in the 2021-2022 bear market I’d probably still be trading, that financial push got me to pursue Revature and get a job. So hopefully if all goes well, I’ll see 2025 too as a humbling year that had to happen to push myself. But that better be the last one, because I don’t want to deal with this shit anymore, it probably won’t be the last shitty year of my life tbh. Anyways lessons about myself in 2025, I am lazy and won’t do something unless I am forced to, I am bad with money spend it, “invest” or give it away or lose it trading, I’m impulsive, I finally figured out that I have to join a power structure and join a “party” which will only happen if im strong enough and provide good value i mean its pretty simple actually be strong do something cool join a party and be in places where other strong people and partys are (Learned from frieren). I learned that I have immense fear and my impulsiveness and contrarianism are a survival reaction to fight/avoid what I’m afraid of. I lack consistency and discipline so my solution is to make things part of my life and join other people so I’m forced to work out or feel the shame of being a loser, I need competition. You cannot fight your biological and psychological position if you are tired you will sleep if you are hungry you will eat if you are too full you will not want to do anything so dont rely on will power, i also heavily overestimate myself and rely on big swings in stead of small consistent wins, i learned that i am just not that guy and will have to work with others to get what I want if that i need to always provide value, I need a routine, i need to stick to literally 1 thing and do that for a long long time or else I will never be good at it, I have a serious short term memory problem,  I need to get better at getting the immediate next 4 things done instead of always planning far ahead i mean it literally never goes as planned anyways and im not saying be short term minded when it comes to operational thinking have some vague idea of the future and just focus on doing what you have to get done today done, i need to have more signal i obviously get ideologically batted around i need to think more for myself, i get distracted easily i am scattered brain but i also am in danger of constantly hopping to thing to thing and never form deep roots with the technology industry people and which will make me always mediocre so its important for me to just stick to one thing and just run with it because biological computers are cool mining and factories are cool but I need to stick to the nervous system of robotics i need to focus on the movement and computation of information in real time robotic systems. I guess I have learned alot about myself and reflected, now its time to put it into action. Literal 12 hour days, talk to people be loud, know I can’t do it all myself work with others, don’t be a cowboy "entrepreneur" join power structures, focus on this 1 single thing. Should be simple enough. God, its actually so embarrassing how slow I do things. 
        There is clearly something wrong my genetics, or more accurately, my genes are not the best suited for this current environment. Clearly I have too many weaknesses, so I need to focus, I need feedback from other people, I need to constantly improve and purposely reject and ignore my impulses, my laziness, my inconsistency, my complacency, my hate for authority. Most importantly I just need to move wayyyyy faster and get more done. I need to do a vague planning and then just start doing things immediately, stopped being fearful. I also think it’s a mistake that I need to understand every single bit totally instead I just need to go. Also, after witnessing just how horrendous the communication skills are in my family I realized I must also have those problems too without realising it, I did realize how important listening and acknowledging others are so that is improving. The ability to stay calm under stressful situations is such such an important skill, if you don’t have that you have nothing. You also need to be able to think logically, clearly, and not make retarded rash decisions. Also learned while working to focus on one thing at a time instead of being totally scatter brained and thinking about 2 things while trying to do something there is a time or place for it so i need to be able to control it and wield it how i want.




        I literally wasted a whole year, literally wasted it. I should be working on what I’m working on now back in around early April. I’m just too slow, I have to make up for the lost time. 








2/2/26
I just want to rant about what an utter failure 2025 was. Like truly the decisions ive made since leaving my job has been utterly retarded. First of all why do I keep giving money away. I have given away 8k for justins retarded credit card debt and 2k for raheels dog that he’s not doing anything with. And I lost 10k on the craziest bull market ever. I literally hadd TQQQ and RKLB, I literally had them I just had to sit and do nothing, sold them for RIVN and NAIl, retarded. Then I had IBIT puts, literally had them, then paper handed on the smallest pullup possible sold near the top, and then it tanked down. And then every time I try to buy back into TQQQ it reverses on me, I lose like $7k on SPY puts. Then I hear Chamath talking about copper and I FOMO into MP, UUUU, and other mining/energy stuff and just lost another $1.5k. I am down to my last $10k. If I don’t get a job after my masters or an internship I am going broke, I will have nothing to my name and $100k in debt. I am a stupid loser that overestimated himself and just left a perfectly good remote 6 figure job. What am I doing with my life. 
All that time and effort I studied market with, all those years, all for what. All for nothing. I have all these ideas in my head and after testing it with reality, turns out im just a wishful idiot. I’m just a stupid normie. What a waste of time. The only winning trade I’ve made was really the initial crypto rally from summer 2023 to may 2024. I literally have not made money since. I’m done with markets, I don’t care about it anymore, I can’t afford to lose more. I’m so dumb, there must be something genetically wrong with me. Like really, I miss out on NVDA, then miss out on memory. Like these are not difficult conclusions to make in hindsight if you spend a couple days researching this stuff. And you know what sucks, all of the stocks Justin recommended have gone up in multiples, if I followed his recs to a tee I’d have over $100k right now. This sucks, life sucks. What was I thinking, I am clearly going about life the wrong way. I really need to get better at reflecting what I’ve done wrong with my life and iterate, there is no other option. 
This little shit was right about RDW, KORU, ONDS, told me RIVN sucks and RKLB is better, even chose my best performing “mass and energy” portfolio which was CNQ and NB (while I chose MP, UUUU, AREC, and BTU all the losers) its just insane. Clearly I dont know jack shit about stock picking. Oh I was wrong about UNH, I was wrong about Chinese stocks (the timing of it), I’m only ever wrong wrong wrong. I mean, I literally got it in at the top of the bounce of energy/mining stocks. Im such a fucking loser it’s not even funny. I have no risk management, I’m just purely greedy that’s the thing. I always always go all in on something, and give out money to others to “diversify” my shit. But really it’s just all high risk high reward stuff, im addicted to it. Well, was addicted, I’m over it now. 
I was bullish on Chinese stock market, and I literally argued wit Justin. He said KORU was way better, I thought Chinese stocks were way better, 6 months later I was totally and utterly wrong. I remember back during covid days I watched to many of those “bond king” videos and I went long TLT and lost $5k. I’m just retarded. I’m just stupid.




2/1/26
Saw a bunch of reaction from the 3 million new pages of the Epstein files. What a saga. Trumps runs on releasing the files, get elected, files aren’t released, actually says files don’t exist, FBI director Kash Patel testifies in congress that it doesn’t exist, then they try to say it’s a democrat hoax, then the shit down the government to not release files, Thomas Massie get it legally passed in congress, surprisingly lots of republicans voted against it. Files come out, trump, bill clinton, prince Andrew, bill gates, lots of important people are proven to party together. Proves there is a western or English speaking global elite. They all know each other, that’s the thing that strikes hardest for me truthfully, that these elites live in their own little world and they are all in the same club, and they love children. Truly degenerate.


I think all of this sets up the morals and cultural values and belief systems of the next era of history. It will be a rejection of modernity and the Epstein elite behavior. Hopefully the dominant culture of the new elites will be: elite identity, elite responsibility, and holding themselves to a higher standard. Hopefully we all look back at this time and be disgusted at the races, the clubs, the music, the movies, the art, the wokeness, just everything about this degenerate and decadent culture.


It’s highly highly likely the next era of history, the exponential era, will be a rejection of modernity. Background information: The general principle is the morals, values, belief systems, culture, everything about the winning society is revered and copied by everyone else. That was English society after they broke through the Industrial Revolution and then American civilization after winning the world wars and the Soviet Union. The culture on mt Olympus the last 250 years all stem from values that formed the Industrial Revolution. A non centralized government, democracy, universal suffrage, the importance of the individual, liberal social values like freedom, equality, rule of law. Everything associated with a liberal western democracy. It’s not even a European concept, it’s not French, German, Italian, these are English values. Fast forward to today and it’s all a lie. None of those values are actually carried out today, it’s just talk to hide true human nature. I reject these values as self evident. In fact the whole world has seen just how much the west has degenerated and the foolishness they believe in and are on the path to rejecting these values. Again it’s not just about your starting beliefs, but the likely path it will degenerate, mutate, or change into in its mature form. This 250 year long liberal culture has already fallen from Olympus. A new set of ideas will take its place, and it will be the ideas of whichever society goes through the Exponential Renaissance first. 
My reply on X:
AGI means selection pressures for highly centralized, coordinated, and conforming societies because they’re the ones who can transition their economies first without collapsing. I think if you rely mostly on market forces, people will lose their jobs too fast, they will crash out, and society can’t transition well because everything’s on fire.
During the Industrial Revolution the established elites did not want change. Since England had a pluralistic society that allowed a grassroots movement like industrialization to circumvent the elites, they industrialized first and became a global empire.
This time around the established elites are the ones pushing for change the most. This time you need a centralized society with very concentrated powers to circumvent the people as white/blue collar jobs get wiped out.
My take is you need powerful authority, a conforming society, and tight coordination amongst the elites so your society doesn’t collapse as it transitions. You really need the entire society to be on the same page about this transition so they know they won’t starve after losing their jobs.
—-
It’s going to be a new world. We will look back to see how foolish and purposeless we were. No had no purpose, this we were disorganized, hedonists, degenerate, decadent, a bunch of little monkeys. Purpose, just by merely having a unified, everlasting purpose which is to increase scientific, productive, and human well being outputs will you abide by engineering principles and continually iterate. 


Its interesting how during the exact time when society needs to have the population trust the government and elites the most, Epstein files are wide in the open and China has an open power struggle. This is not good. 


1/31/26
I wont forget these days. Lots of learned lessons, frankly, I needed this.


1/30/26 pt.1
The more you desire coexistence, the more people die by your hands. Your desire for coexistence will lead to the extinction of our people. The time for retribution has come. Great lines by Frieren, the author knows exactly what he was doing. And we people are not affectionate enough to be willing to wait until then. The true purpose of Frieren was to give Japanese and maybe all asian societies the mental framework to see through deception and reject the lies of modernity. Reject “coexistence”, reject immigration. Some demons can mimic human behavior, curiously coexist and converse and learn, but in the end they will kill humans without a thought. That is their nature, they are far frin being able to coexist. Very smart, thank you for trying, im sure the message will resonate in time. Dang and even had coexistence as dangerous on the demon’s side as well to extend the cover up, to let them know its not advantageous to them as well. Smart.


1/30/26 pt.2
We have the kardashev scale, but I think its about time we calculate the efficiency rate of human civilization uses its mass and energy. The ability to continue tradition without understanding its origin or purpose is to have faith in your ancestors. Or, you can just carry on the proper information.




I think people underestimate the importance of elite identity, elite responsibility, and high trust elite dynamics. The elites need to create a social structure amongst themselves where higher status is bestowed to whoever sacrifices or does most for the people and society. Essentially, being a net positive. The elites need to be willing to lend their wealth and power even if it hurts themselves because they control the vast resources so they must spend it. Low trust elite dynamics means you don’t want to do that faithfully because a competing elite will wait for you to spend all your money and resources and then come after your weaker state. That’s why high trust societies are so so important. High trust populations, both amongst the elite and general public is incredibly important. 


When something has been in existence as long as one can remember , the idea of that thing ceasing to exist is hard to picture.


Also, this may sound hard to believe, by I finally understood after re-watching Frieren this weekend that I need to work with other people to get what I want. Yes at the age of 25 I finally learned that, hey, maybe I should put in an effort and get to know other people, not just for socializing, but to help each other out achieve a common goal. I need a teacher, I need a “party”, and I need to be somewhere a lot of other “powerful mages” would be at. 


1/29/26
Most don’t realize it but the events coming out of China between Xi and Zhang has the potential hugely influence the rest of the 21st century and thus the 22nd century and beyond. If I was playing Civilization 5 and was China right now, if Xi gets replaced with a reformist, I would immediately try to re-make my global branding to be what America was the past 80 years. Change global perception that the CCP is not authoritarian and just like any other government in the world. A safe, secure, reliable, well-intended, and morally good society that the rest of the world can do business with. Have the replacement publicly denounce authoritarianism and push for collective leadership (elites get to vote for the next leader) which can be marketed as a type of democracy (they want to do this anyways), allow foreign companies to try to compete in their domestic markets (their important industries will outcompete foreign ones), get rid of the great firewall (really good bang for the buck, most people go through it anyways the positive global pr overwhelmingly net positive), get rid of the obvious censorship (make it subtle for the topics you really care about), literally pay streamers and celebrities around the world to visit China (costs almost nothing, only have to gain), and pursue good relations with the United States and try to convince the elites and the people that they can be friends and business partners (good for business). Have open trade with everyone the US tariffed, publicly blame the previous spying and ip theft on Xi and stop doing it, I would just do these very very obvious things and then China would have easily taken advantage of this temporary rift Trump and his admin caused between US and Europe, Canada, Australia, and the rest of the world. Then use this geopolitical, cultural, and positive pr capital to get what I want like turning on Russia and grabbing the territory they took and get Siberia. Can you imagine, China turning into a more “democratic” and open society and then turning against Russia, EU will love it, US public will like it, the rest of the world will think its cool. Changing your society and to secure the wealth in Siberia is 100% worth it, it outweighs everything. AND you score nationalism points back at home for getting back lost Qing territory, all you have to do is leave Taiwan alone. I can not be the only one that sees this potential opening, its literally so obvious and can totally happen if the right leader replaces Xi. I think Xi made a gamble arresting Zhang, rumor has it Zhang’s guys broke free? Not sure what’s going on but I highly doubt Xi totally controls the military, I think the military leadership mostly sides with Zhang. Anyways, I think Xi loses in the end. Lets see how the next few years go. Like some higher-up there must see this opportunity as well, and so must someone in the US. It’ll literally be a layup to get the positive global pr. The actual risk would be turning on Russia, because if both China and US spheres sanction Russia, Russia is cooked, create some instability within the elites (work with US and Europe) or just support Ukraine, and then the central Russian government has a higher chance of falling (especially if you motivate the population) and boom you can just yoink Siberia and win the 21st century. They must be looking at getting back their Manchu territory annexed by Russia. They must realize that at some point they were going to need to get it back for their own pride. US is much more useful as a friend than Russia and you were eventually going to get Russian territory back and you need Siberia for resources. It’s like hitting 3 birds with 1 stone. 


Too bad they’re not going to actually do that though. This is mostly what I would’ve done playing Civ 5 as China. In reality when you have to deal with established competing power structures the next leader of China probably won’t be as powerful as we’d like to think, the elites will ensure that the next leader won’t take power like Xi did. The post-Xi landscape is still largely the same however, economic issues, import dependency, and maintaining social cohesion, and sprinting through the exponential renaissance. The bureaucracy probably won’t give up power it doesn’t have to, they will probably continue protecting their industry and prevent foreign companies coming in, they will continue to pursue making everything in--house, they will continue trying to forge good relations to export their stuff everywhere and import what they need. I think maybe odds of war with Taiwan drop significantly and they will try to socially/culturally win it over generations. I think their biggest geopolitical choice is whether to pursue good relations with US. It sounds super obvious to do but the leadership might go for non-threatening and non-aggressive, but not friendly. That’s because US relations is related to how friendly you want to be with Russia. And that question relates to the odds you eventually quarrel with Russia for land and resources. They must want Siberia as well, they know it’s right there, and they probably want to own the land if they can instead of relying on Russia’s goodwill. If I was them I would probably tone it down with US and be neutral with them to semi-friendly, maintain with Russia, but secretly support their downfall. Then once they fall grab Siberia and be friends with US. 


Of course, the issue with losing a strong leader is the bureaucracy can double down to affirm its power against any other authority. Chance that China becomes increasingly bureaucratic. This is essentially a power vacuum event, local provinces and elite aspirants will want their piece of wealth and their name in history. If by some stunning turn of events the next leader had to take over using the military and then feels the need to double down on his military authority to do what needs to be done, that may trigger a political tradition of grabbing power instead of orderly transfer. 


So key questions for the next few days, does Xi lose power, who takes over, and is it an orderly bureaucratic transfer of power or are we doubling down on authoritarian strong-man power. Because it’s 1 or the other. After a strong man goes down you really only have 2 options given the circumstance politically and evolutionary biologically. Interesting times, I remember in middle school thinking how uneventful things will be in my lifetime, how all the wars were fought, the borders won’t change, and fantasizing about living through dramatic events. Never expected to be live through historic times. I wonder what’s going on in China right now, maybe the public will get the full truth one day. 




On another note, if you are very insecure and have a temper, there is a good chance you will never get anywhere in life because you are completely unable to iterate: try->measure result->change->try again. If you are super insecure you have a very weak self concept, so you are incapable are having an honest assessment of the situation. Insecure people tend to have excuses and blame others instead of themselves, because blaming yourself makes you even more insecure, so in order to protect yourself your subconscious diverts blame to other things. Your subconscious protects itself and prevents you from realizing how it’s your fault so you blame others. Weak people are incapable of blaming themselves. Then, if you have a temper tantrum ontop of that, it’s hard to have honest and orderly important discussions. I find what happens is that you are trying to have an important conversation with someone, and they go from normal to irritated and offended within 10 words. This is a miserable human being you are dealing with. This is also why words mean nothing and you never know who people are until you see them under stress. What’s the point of having a seemingly normal demeanor when you are always a couple words away from a crashout, and of course its someone’s fault they triggered you. Anyways, this makes it impossible to talk about finances, jobs, school, or plan out important details in life because you just get frustrated at the one trying to talk to you, you don’t adequately asses the situation and why you are in it, and you just blame everything else. Why would anyone want to keep helping a temperamental little shit, why would someone keep burning their hand on a hot stove. This is an impossible situation and although some of it is environmental, it certainly is just some genetic predisposition that causes this. Odd behavior, I wonder what % of the population are miserable little shits who are their own worst enemy. And I’m supposed to pay for their welfare? Yea right. Also one of the surest signs of mental disability is hating your own ethnicity/race. (this person does that alot). Another is being an online rage baiter, griefer, troll, and thinks making fun or insulting another is their idea of a good time. It’s just such an important character trait to filter for in friendships and relationships, I will not hesitate nor do I regret avoiding or cutting people out who are miserable, temperamental, or have even the smallest hint of mental instability. I have no tolerance for these people. Usually you can spot these people right away, it always comes out, and they particularly hate confident happy people (they think, why is this person so happy and sure of himself, he should be miserable like me to justify my pathetic state). Without exception, all the miserable shits I had to deal with ended up being insecure or temperamental or mentally unstable and almost always sad and bitter people. But always remember,  have no compassion for these people, have no mercy, and ensure they eventually pay penance. There is no reasoning with these people, there is no consistent internal logic, there is no truth, its just however they feel. For them words are a way to deceive people, they will say whatever they need to deceive you, to immediately feel better about themselves, etc. They have no self control and are impulsive. They are ill-evolved animals. When picking your partner, no matter how beautiful, kind, or whatever they seem like, you never, never know who they really are until you see how they perform under stress. The smallest details in a reaction tells you everything you need to know and your gut has never been wrong, anyone you’ve suspected with this affliction has proven true. To keep your peace in the future and to prevent yourself from devolving, always always remember to confirm how they act under stress. No one is good until they have proven it through action time and time again. 
        Oh and remember these are often less-severe school shooter types, so once you identify one stay far far away. Keep your distance at all times, no matter how often they reach out, remember how they use words. But don’t be surprised when they turn deadly. So always be prepared for their “unexpected” mental breakdown and ensuing violence. Also, once they’ve demonstrated the slightest hint of the traits mentioned before, know it never goes away. It does not matter if they get a stake in society, it does not matter if they have a wife and children, it does not matter if they have a nice job or a nice reputation. It does not matter, your mental health is like glass, if it shatters once, it never fully heals, you can only ever fool yourself you’ve gotten better. Besides, jobs can be lost, divorces happen, everything that kept their insanity at bay are always 1 or 2 steps away from losing it all. These people really are a serious threat to yourself and society as a whole, these are net negatives. It’s best for them to forget about you, especially as the economic situation and political extremism worsens. 


The peculiar software engineering culture very open egalitarian supportive and helpful and value add and building things that led to AI and heavily influence its behavior.


Popularity of shows and media with moral ambiguity, anti heroes, heroes with good and flaws, gray themes interesting product of degeneracy and decadence. It is interesting to think turning villains into complex moral characters to trigger empathy is a tactic to get us to all ignore the violence and depravity 3rd world immigrants have caused in 1st world countries. Good is good, bad is bad. There are net positives and net negatives, it’s not that complicated. 


The reality is that most people are indeed retarded. They don’t know what the believe in and why, they don’t know what they’re doing, have no purpose, and mostly operate on an infinite loop of pre-defined behaviors. Easily manipulated, easily emotional, easily illogical. They don’t even realize a good amount of their behaviors and characteristics was influenced by dna. The elites always knew this, but they always needed the population for armies, for workers, to serve them. They had to throw a small bone at the peasants and give them scraps because they needed peasants. And frankly, the elites were not that much better than the peasants, that’s why it turned out educating the masses and giving them all purchasing power and agency was a good thing. But what happens when the machines get here, the elites will not be egalitarian, when they have no use for the peasants they will not care what happens. Even more when 1000 people have more military strength and resources and build power than everyone else combined, and they’re competing with each other, do you think they’ll have any UBI to give to you? Do you think they’ll care what happens to you? This will not be like the Industrial Revolution socially, we are just extrapolating current trends from that event, it will be the exact opposite. People will not be needed, less people will be needed work, people will lose purchasing power, mass consumption economics slowly give way to entity to entity or physics based. Before the society that was pluralistic won and the value of human labor as whole went up, now the society with strong centralized powers will win and the value of human labor as a whole went down. People are genuinely going to turn into cattle, we’re going to have factory farms. 


I know I wrote this before but bureaucracy is a tool for unqualified people to tell qualified people what to do and how to spend their time. It’s evil. 


Why do we have friends, community, and beliefs, its because we need them to work with each other to survive. You don’t really need any of that to survive nowadays, that’s why there is a loneliness problem and lack of purpose. As that reverses because modernity it dying, cosmopolitan culture is dying, Pax Americana is over, so ethno nationalism will be required for countries to survive and get mass and energy. Future generations will genuinely see modernity as insane. Openly letting unvetted foreigners in, letting everyone vote, actively degrading social standards and culture, actively promoting degeneracy, not having a national purpose? Insanity. Mass consumption markets will slowly lose out to physics based entities, which can grow and get more mass and energy regardless if the market wants it or not. As long as you have the mass, energy, and build power within your control, you actually don’t need anyone else. Actually everyone else becomes your competition, unless of course you need to work together with other societies to defeat the bigger ones. There is no real reason to work with the rest of the world if you don’t to sell into their markets for more power. Especially when the common person loses purchasing power. Do you see whats going to happen, there’s no need to play nice anymore if you’re a superpower. 


1/27/26
Space mining will be another major event in the global power games. For either market or physics based entities pursuing this, you need to go after the rarer metals first to make it worthwhile. I think most of the mining will come from planets and moons, not asteroids. I think the entire asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter has 4% of the mass of the moon, or 11% of Earth’s crust mass, and half of that mass is concentrated into 4 large bodies. It’s not that much amount of mass, but at the same time, there may be undiscovered asteroids, there are other asteroids besides the Main Belt, can be full of the rarer and valuable elements, or it turns out its much easier to mine from asteroids than digging through a bunch of dirt to get the good stuff out. Seriously, for asteroid mining to work the next 20 years you basically need to have large number of easy to reach asteroids rich with rare/valuable elements. If not, then you’re going to have to wait for technology to get better and then mine from the Main Belt. I don’t think asteroid mining is realistic for 20 years unless there ends up being really good, easy to reach asteroids of the right metals. Maybe we’ll find a couple of very valuable asteroids nearby but it’s not a highly scalable industry because to get more material you need to go beyond Mars, then that becomes a completely different game. Highly likely it will take much longer than 20 years, I might eat my words, but I think its going to take +40 years before we do asteroid mining seriously, if that. We’re kind of stuck with the resources on Earth for at least 40 years.


1/25/26
Dang, seems like the power struggle between Zhang Youxia and Xin Jingping is heating up, Zhang arrested and his friends’ phones confiscated. Apparently arrested Zhang through a 100 man ambush. I’m picturing something similar to what happened to Ned Stark. Anyways, I am quite convinced now that over generations Russia won’t hold onto Siberia, eventually they’ll lose it. Their society is currently not equipped to undergo the exponential transition, although every country and their elites do have an incentive to do so or they get left behind. They have that pressure but overall they are not a pro-tech society, they have great scientists and engineers, but the leadership class have this old school boomer mentality. We’ll see what happens. The old elites can be overthrow and new elites led by a great figure, has happened in Russian history so there is a precedent. But China’s power level is rising way too quickly, they will undergo the exponential transition, even though it will be particularly painful for them. Even if Russia undergoes the transition the rate of transition and your rate of exponential growth has to be better than your competitors. That’s the problem, but again China can always cuck themselves with bureaucracy. 


I think when we meet aliens the patterns will be similar. There will be an anthropological school of study of how different species turned out the way they are and which groups did better than others and why. On Earth the groups that experience harsh winters do better because they had to learn to cooperate with each other to survive, this works out for a species that became social and have a low base power level. But I believe the broader pattern across different species throughout the universe will be that IF multicellular life evolved to be very agentic and distributed, like you have many plants and animals that are their own organisms instead of one giant super organism, that means the individual organism has a very low power level in terms of its ability to amass mass/energy and thus strenth/intelligence. If your planet’s conditions are most conducive for agentic and distributed organisms, then their tech path becomes civilization, industrialization, and then ai/robotics exponentialism. If the planets conditions gives way to a very centralized organism, like one great tree with roots throughout the entire continent and evolved to have a brain, or something like that, might not be possible but who knows, then their tech path to the mass production of labor and intelligence might look very different. Maybe since its harder for larger entities to iterate and evolve, maybe they take a lot longer to reach that exponential improvement, or maybe they do it entirely biologically instead of with computers and robots. Whatever the evolutionary path, in this universe, any entity that can make decisions and do things in the world has a tech tree for them and eventually there is a tech node that enables exponentialism, the exponential production of labor and intelligence. This tech node is always available to be unlocked because there will always always be more mass and energy throughout the rest of the universe than in your home planet, or asteroid, or whatever area you spawned from. That fundamental truth means its always a race to reach that exponential tech node that allows you to harness the mass/energy of the universe. So again, not to be too verbose, but there is a spectrum of centralized to decentralized organisms possible in this universe based on what is most conducive to your spawning point’s environment. For an environment on Earth, it was conducive to more on the decentralized side which means probably the only way for decentralized organisms to reach the exponential age, or another way to put it, for many smaller groups of mass & energy to make contact with much more mass & energy, is through group cooperation. There simply cannot be another way, the winning species in a decentralized environment is the one that cooperates with other organisms the best. (scattered groups of mass/energy need to be collected up to a critical mass and then used effectively to get things done) The organisms that cooperate the best are the ones who were forced to by their environment, so really cold, hot, dangerous, windy, whatever. On Earth, probably because of the nature of our biology and our evolutionary path, we ended up with a biology where the best cooperating forcing function was the cold. Don’t we find it a bit odd that civilization erupted a few thousand years after the last ice age? Just a thought. Repeated ice ages while maintaining a livable environment for our humanoid organisms probably forced out cooperation amongst us. Of course, once the ice age ends you can devolve back to how you were before the ice age. Even the people living in the hot and dry middle east now, they and every other human posses DNA that is optimal for cooperating thanks to selection pressures during the ice ages. Ancient Egypt rose because it was dry and people had to cooperate with each other for water, that’s not a coincidence. Same with Mesopotamia and their river system, same with China with their river system. As long as you have undergone selectin pressures and became +20 social, +20 cooperative, and then +10 environmental factors like water scarcity that forces out those social and cooperate traits, you get civilization. I think people make the mistake that only humans from cold societies do better because of cooperative reasons to survive the winter, but they say this without understanding that ancient Egypt, ancient middle east, and the golden age of Islam were all very much advanced civilizations and did not suffer from harsh winters. You just need some kind of forcing function for cooperation, could be winter, could be water scarcity, whatever. However it is true that before AC hot climates weren’t really helpful for thinking. 
        I think if aliens saw how civilization turned out on Earth they’ll be amused that the descendants of aryans made it to Europe and then somehow conquered and made civilizations in the Americas and Australia. I mean how funny is it that Anglos got to Australia before the Chinese. They’ll see that the humans from the cold climates today, basically the northern hemisphere are doing much better than the southern ones and from that they can probably deduce alot about our biology, how we perform better in temperate climates, winters were a forcing function. But so are desert climates and they made great civilizations to, but one can not argue with the results, something about temperate/winter climates were in fact better for civilizations on the long run than hot desert climates, even if deserts are also forcing functions.
        I’d like to think that aliens like to make guesses on how a specie’s history will play out, who will make what kind of civilization and who will industrialize first and reach the exponential age. It must be a game similar to guessing how a certain species will develop evolutionarily and develop what traits and such. That’s one of the things I just can stand with modernity, this odd idea that we are all the same. If you just take a look and notice the details, different groups of people have innate characteristics, we are all a bit different from each other because of the different selection pressures of the different environments we came from. It’s just so obvious but were not allowed to talk about it because of Hitler and the holocaust. Anyways, I’d like to think that observing aliens would be interested to seeing who wins the world and how they react to winning for too long. They would be keen in observing how different peoples and societies deal with degeneracy and decadence. For the Chinese after they won their part of the world and were isolated from everyone else because they were on the edge of the map, they became arrogant, closed off, and cucked themselves into bureaucracy and shut off their own industrialization. Now, it’s hard to tell if it was because of genetics, the lack of competition, or just part of being on the edge of the map, or its just circumstances. It’s clearly different from the west which never fully united into 1 large entity like China did, didn’t cuck themselves out of an industrial revolution (although that was largely due to a plurality of competition within England) and instead fought each other in 2 massive wars that was so horrific it spawned the current age of modernity which expresses degeneracy and decadence through never judging people, importing foreigners and purposely becoming minorities within their own countries, etc. But all things considered, besides the immigration and wokeness both european and asian societies degenerated and became decadent the same ways. Both won, lost their purpose, then did retarded stuff. All the while extracting more and more from their own population.
        Its an interesting study, the group of people that managed to conquer their known world, but then without competition they degenerate and turn decadent and don’t iterate or evolve. But the ones that didn’t manage to conquer everything, were forced to co-evolve with their local competition, iterate, evolve, and probably make it to industrialization and the exponential age faster. It’s actually quite hilarious to think about, the better you do, the worse off you are. The better you do, you get rid of all competition, you don’t really care about what’s outside of your borders, combined with probably an innate biological tendency to not be super explorative, and then you end up with Anglos in Australia before the Chinese. It’s actually hilarious. Having those explorative traits, while having the right traits conducive for civilization and industrialization, means you get to conquer all the lands first, meaning you have more of the right mass/energy needed to propel yourself during the industrial revolution and exponential age.
        I really do think a common pattern we see in the universe for developing species is that the group of people that had the right combination of plurality of powers + competition + cooperation + IQ managed to industrialize first through various forcing functions to do better than your competition and existing power structures not cucking new technologies. It’s the precedent on Earth, and it’s difficult to extrapolate this to everywhere else in the universe, but the principles of competition amongst decentralized organisms must be the same everywhere because there is a finite number of mass/energy within a certain area and time, you die if you don’t get them, and there are others also trying to survive. I am pretty sure that if China was not united and was instead a bunch of smaller countries like Europe, it would have industrialized on its own due to competitive pressures. Eventually someone would find out a way to mass produce iron/steel and combine bullets and gunpowder together, and I’m also sure that would force industrialization to force out more guns. A huge forcing function in Europe to have a reason to produce many tons of steel and iron were for the cannons on ships, for artillery pieces. Making textiles was a good reason, but the primary buyers of iron and later steel was the military for bearings on the ships and cannons. 
        There are probably other patterns as well for decentralized organisms, they winning ones all made civilizations, they were social, had hierarchy, cucks to authority, had money, had market economies, elites controlling the entities had all the power and the people let them because of their biological and psychological tendencies as decentralized,social creatures. I think the way history went on Earth might look largely the same to other species that became decentralized organisms. The principles for our kind of life are all the same, whoever congregates the most mass/energy and uses it effectively wins. Organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. That’s all we’re trying to do. 
        So if I’m an alien and I’m looking at the Earth now trying to make predictions, I predict that being a cuck to authority is actually a good thing as we make it to the stars. If human nature remain unmodified, then you can have 1000000s of different societies across the universe, but all it takes is 1 great leader to tap into limbic system mechanisms and unite huge swaths of different societies into a single goal and identity. That is the perk of our irrationalism, we can all unite if the right person and circumstance forces it. You can imagine other aliens that are totally logical and also very spread out throughout the galaxy, if you don’t naturally gravitate towards a single authority or succumb to ideology, it probably is much harder to unite millions of different societies under a the same goal. Maybe you can, because logically it makes sense to have some protocol if there is a greater threat than we all unite together to fight it, but idk, the human capacity to unite for retarded reasons is probably some major perk that will come in handy as we spread across the universe. It’s a possible uniting function that will probably come in handy one day. But I am probably thinking about it all wrong and we will most likely change human nature when we can, then hilariously find out that maybe a lot of human nature is there for good reason. Our nature is the evolutionary result of competition and survival on Earth, there will still be competition in the universe amongst ourselves and eventually other entities. Maybe we get rid of some of the limbic system stuff or modify it in some way, but I truly think we’ll find a lot of our nature useful.
        Other predictions on the Earth, modernity is done, we are back to normal with how power works, the reality and differences in peoples, that some are better and some are worse due to their own faults, mass and energy is what matters, were heading to the exponential renaissance, then the exponential age and start harnessing the mass and energy from the rest of the solar system, then beyond. The optimal environment for our species is a plurality of competing powers. We will constantly try to one up each other, improve our technology, force us into space, and force us to get the mass and energy of the rest of the universe. I don’t think it’s a good idea to have all of humanity exist under a single governing body, that will be suicide, just look what happened to pre-industrial China and the modern EU. What would have happened to those societies if there was no competing player to slap them in the face and force them to evolve. There must always be some kind of iterating/evolutionary forcing function and the best one we have now is the plurality of competing powers. 
Now for the powers, it is going to be hard to get this right, I think the main power nodes will be asian civilization, western civilization, and maybe 1 other civilization. Anything can happen in 20 years, but if you look at the civilizational trajectories and also the coming exponential transition, I am not entirely sure who will make it through the transition intact first and what that means for everyone else who didn’t. Because your society needs a forcing function to go through this painful transition phase where millions will become unemployed and power will be centralized. I certainly believe having a large population will turn out to be 1 huge unemployment problem, you need to have a really good reason as a society to go through with this willingly, and those are countries facing birth rate collapse, they have every incentive to go through the robotics/ai transition and will be less painful the smaller the number of unemployed people there are. As I said before, its a 3 part pipeline: forcing function to exponentialize, have the technological/industrial and social capacity to transition intact, and then having the mass, energy, and build power to feed your exponential age. Make no mistake, under our biological and psychological traits, ai/robotics exponentialization will 100% be a centralizing force. The big players will get bigger, the powerful will become even more powerful. Governments, large tech companies, countries will access to mass/energy, they will all get more powerful, just like they did after the industrial revolution. Sure industrialization allowed people to be more wealthy and prosperous than ever before and it increased the demand of labor significantly so people got rights, but exponentialism, under the belief that ai/robotics can do things autonomously, the demand of labor goes down and the average person will become an insignificant spec without voting rights, real possessions, and without a say in society. Make no mistake, we are entering a world where human lives are seen as a burden, a useless thing, and more insignificant than ever. The societal traits necessary to undergo this transition are slightly different from the industrial revolution. Before there was no precedent, now there is one, and it is extremely extremely obvious to everyone involved how important it is to evolve with technology. You won’t have some king scratching their head the usefulness of machines, but you will have them still concerned about what to do with their unemployed subjects. And yes I know people say, well people will find new jobs and find other things to do to feed themselves. The mechanism for people to eat and live in a house will be intact one way or another, people will survive and probably thrive, that is not what we are discussing here, we are talking about who has real power and authority in a society and it will increasingly be a smaller and smaller number of people. Authority will become very very centralized as people become dependant on the state for their standard of living.  It’s very simple, if the amount of true units of artificial intelligence and labor becomes the overwhelming majority, then there is no function for humans. The people who owned the exponential entities will become the ruling class, maybe we’ll have a system of collective ownership of these entities but that flies in the face of human nature. People with power want to keep their power and get more, the only reason why people got anything in the industrial revolution (and most didn’t get very much at all during that transition phase) was because the elites needed human labor and so people got purchasing power, more people needed in the military, so people got voting rights. That all goes away when you don’t need people for your militaries or factories anymore. Sure, that reality is still a ways off but it is on its way, and im not sure how much faster we can augment humans than machines. Make no mistake, this transition phase is a centralizing force. So part of our 3 part pipeline, who has the incentives to go through with it. Well pretty much everyone because we know if you don’t keep up then you get conquered, colonized, and forced into submission, so every body of elites know they have to go through with it or be insignificant conquered peoples. So theres the incentive of the back of everyone’s minds, but what are the real financial and political incentives to legally carry this out, encouraged by the leaders, the business elites, the tech elites, and even the population. The companies who have every incentive on all levels are the smaller countries with low birth rates. The tech/business elites need workers and want to keep up with exponentializing competition, small business owners need labor, the everyday old person, the everyday parent, and it would not be hard to convince the population that they need to do this or their larger neighbors will and become much much more powerful. I realized this about Korea and Japan by the way, they don’t hold technology with skepticism and distaste like they do in the US. For some reason there is this suspicious culture amongst even electrical engineers here of changing technologies. But anyways, small populations with low birth rates and next to external threats or larger countries have every incentive to exponentialize from the elites to npcs. Large entities also have a huge incentive, but not to the point of existential necessity. For all we say that China and the US are in competition with each other, most of the time the people and elite are mainly thinking about what is going on within their own countries. They say outloud that they are in a geopolitical race with each other but if you look at their everyday lives they are mostly concerned about what is happening internally. So yes every country in incentivized for geopolitical reasons, but fewer are incentivized out of necessity for survival. The ones who need exponentialization for survival will go through with it earnestly. Now lets go to the most important aspect, who has the technological, industrial, and social capacity to undergo exponentialization intanct. The #1 factor is how will the society manage about ½ of its population becoming unemployed within the next 40 years, most will probably turn to government handouts, and so how strong and efficient is the central government to give millions of people the right handout. You can’t rely on traditional markets because traditional markets will render people homeless. (you will rely on a new kind of market dynamic to allocate handouts, that is possible) Let me ask you a question, how will China undergo unemploying 1 billion people the next 40 years? How will western civilization undergo intense, and I mean intense centralization of power and social changes that goes against almost every moral and cultural aspect of their civilization? I really do think the countries with the strongest state government and most conformist people will go through with this change intact. In industrialization the previous ruling elites were the established powers and status quo the entrepreneurs had to break through, disrupting businesses and old power structures to bring forth industrialization. With exponentialization, the ruling elites are the people, the people with their purchasing powers and voting rights are the status quote and established powers entrepreneurs need to break through to being forth exponentialization. The political elites may also be there with the people because ultimately they need votes and during a time of populism that is a very potent combination against exponentialization. But when was the last time the political elites ever gave a shit about the normal people, they listen to their donors, so that’s why they are in the maybe category. Anyways, whoever can break against the economic, political, social, and cultural power structures held by everyday people will be able to go about exponentialization, force them to be unemployed or atleast force them into blue collar work for the time being. Here the societies that can adapt the fastest will win. Obviously there will be a massive change in the test taking university system, the destruction of white collar jobs, in all who ever can do the intermediary transition from white collar to blue collar work the best will take off a huge amount of social stress, Western civilizations certainly have an advantage here on this on paper, as asian societies will be much slower to change. However the problem will be that although the young can transition from white collar to blue, the older ones can’t, and more importantly, will there be more blue collar job creation than white collar job destruction. I think not. It’s hard to scale things in the real world, to create jobs, open new mines, to make new factories (which will be largely automated btw like in China). Creating a new white collar business and jobs is so much easier than creating a new factory or electrician job. So while western societies have the flexibility advantage, I suspect it will look something like +10 the youth transitioned to blue collar jobs -30 the older white collar population did not transition well. There will be regulation, as long as people get to vote and the elections are honest, the opposing political parties (in America the political competition between republicans and democrats have now become existential for those involved) they will give bread and circus to the people. They will try to slide in their corporate donors, and ramp up propaganda, or use social issues like fighting immigration, fighting woke, fighting ICE, fighting fascism and saving democracy as ways to get the population to vote against their own self interests. That is possible, but it will become a messy dance. I think eventually the democrats will win an election if the right goes too hard, or force a semi-king president if war breaks out or geopolitical issues get bad enough. But ultimately there is a change that the creative destruction that western civilization has been so good at does a little bit too much destruction that creation because of the current stage of the civilizational cycle it’s in right now. There are of course, different ways to cut the cake, I suspect asian civilization to double down on centralized powerful governments, will try to do an orderly and controlled rounds of worker replacement or give out government money to those affected. Of course this will be slow, bureaucratic, and the possibly cause them to be outcompeted by others in terms of exponentialization. It could take too long, not enough destruction is the danger here. The west will certainly have too much destruction too quickly, then it becomes a guess if the society remains intact while it implodes, which I am pretty sure American civilization will at some point, the trajectories have just gotten worse.  As for Europe, which is western civilization, I think they’ll just move too slow, they will try to do what the asian civilizations do but much slower, they still have the EU. Of course, the forcing function of Russia might expedite their progress. As for China, they have a problem. 1 billion unemployed, dependant on the government, if this is not done well this is implode in their face. Greatest strength greatest weakness. They still need to import a lot, and I mean a lot of materials to keep their giant factory and society running. Get into geopolitical trouble, they need to depend on Russia for their stuff, they need to maintain their society or slow down progress on purpose because if too many people become unemployed, and the government needs to provide handouts, then they need to exponential grow faster than what their unemployed population takes. Although I suspect the Chinese to do this is in a very controlled and authoritarian fashion, even then I suspect it will be very difficult and the governing body comes out of this transition may be super duper authoritarian because it had to be to transition properly. For the rest of the world, I do not see a world where Sub Saharan African societies undergo exponentialization by themselves, most haven’t even industrialized properly yet. I don’t think they’ll even do it. Maybe, and I mean maybe South Africa. Their elite aren’t capable, they don’t have strong governments or frankly any kind of strong entity, they are low trust. It’s just not going to happen and I this is not even a controversial opinion. In fact they’re in big trouble, they swelled up massively in population yet don't have the proper economy to even give those people jobs, what are they even going to do once ai/robotics hit? Some countries in Latin America can do it but their governments are not strong enough, or don’t have the enough of the cultural or social traits necessary to remain unified during this painful process. Their central governments are too weak and too corrupt to properly manage the situation of millions unemployed and giving the right handouts to the right people. I still don’t think they can even properly exponentialize, they have no chips, no ai, lack the technology, industry, and lack the capita to feed the energy needs. Of course they have people and companies that can do it and can probably do it faster than expected, but I am talking about Latin American civilization as a whole, maybe 1 or 2 countries can do it, maybe Argentina, maybe Peru, but the civilization as a whole won’t. Frankly, they might create pockets of exponentialized society but the underlying society probably can’t manage the social change. Middle east, besides Iran and Saudi Arabia everyone is kind of cooked. Lets see what happens with the Iranian ruling class, but whatever the outcome I suspect the traditional islamists to be utterly incapable of exponentializing and the new elites to not have the ability or even the centralizing power to maintain a strong government necessary. And I keep saying everyone will depend on the government, of course, someone may find away to go about this whole thing without strong central and efficient governance. It could end up being a massive corporation. But regardless it will have to be some powerful entity that is very efficient and pro-tech. Saudi Arabia can undergo it, the elites want the change, they have the population already dependent on the state, have plenty of money, and don’t have a huge population. India might be cooked as well, the government is not strong enough, low trust, very corrupt. In fact they might be turbo cooked because they have a huge population, their economy is largely built on services instead of industry, they are not united, to many bickering factions, they have different languages. So to make my argument clear, massive wave of white collar jobs automated when most of their economy is white collar information not blue collar industrial, they have a weak corrupt government and many different clan identities which means there is a 0%, and I mean 0% of a strong government allocating the right amount of handouts to the right people. When you come from a low trust corrupt government you can not trust that entity to give you the right amount fairly so they will resort to low trust tactics. South East Asia can do it, they infact might be the most primed because they are growing rapidly, their societies and the white collar society that developed countries have are not super common yet so they won’t feel a massive social disruption, they have identity, a decently strong and functioning government. They might make it out okay all things considered. They are industrializing fast, they are hungry, and will probably adopt exponentialism as their way out and leap frog others. Basically, they don’t have a super established society to break down to make way for exponentialization, government decently strong, kind of corrupt. Cautious but on optimistic side to them to transition. I kind of want to go into more detail for US, Russia, Australia, Canada, China. Russia very strong central government, but probably will struggle to exponentialize technologically and industrially. (btw i don’t know much about any of these societies Im just vibe guessing here). It feels to me Russia can possibly lose Siberia over time after Putin dies and if the next king is weak. They have a lot of issues but none of the vitality and energy to fix it. Not sure how they end up, could possibly pull a Stalin or Lenin and just make it happen through brute force and become even more centralized and authoritarian because the government had to be like that to survive. Australia, good government good society, but have the massive massive problem of utterly destroying the previous social structure. Massive inertia. They also don’t really feel the urgency or need to go about this like the US, China, or small countries do. They can just chill and be fine. They can transition, but the central government might not be strong enough to force it, or be over protective and regulate the hell out of it, or have large enough tech/business entity to properly transform their society on their own. They can deal with the unemployment and rationing out resources once they get there, but they might be really really slow to do it. Europe basically has a welfare state anyways so they can distribute resources just fine, they have the same problem, just really really slow to go about actually doing it. I think contrary to what most people thing I think they can force themselves to exponentialize due to Russia. The urgency won’t be as high like in China, US, or Korea/Japan but it will still be there. I think they can do it, just at a slower pace. I think theyll keep their societies intact as well. However they will have a problem with what to do with the non europeans living there, do these people who cause nothing but harm and problems really get to free welfare like the rest of us? This question will become increasingly common. As for Eastern Europe, bullish on Poland, they want it. They want greatness, have competent government, in direct existential competition with Russia, society is not super established white collar, they can do it. They have purpose and identity. Canada can do it but they have a serious purpose and identity problem. I don’t have a good pules on Canada, they might not even be around within 100 years. US, I feel like I can make a good prediction here, there is a huge huge question if the US implodes within the next 100 years. It does not feel like it’s 1 country, it is too divided and as people get poorer the political and social divide will only widen. Eventually this leads to civil war or revolution. China is not really seen as an existential threat, only a geopolitical rival by the elites, most people don’t give a shit about China. This country can actually implode. The only way out is to exponentialize hard and fast, mine all the resources, make all the factories, and distribute resources to the population faster than they go hungry. How will the defining civilization of this era of history do as we move to a new era of history. People don’t appreciate the magnitude of the change, modernity is about to get flipped upside down and we are the most entrenched established power. The financial system, the university system, white collar society, rights and freedoms of the people, that is all getting blown up. And people are freaking poor. The political climate is I think, at a boiling point. It has now become existential for the incumbent republican party, the line has been crossed. They know if the democrats get elected, they are going to jail. Elon knows that, the trump family and his administration, they all know that. They will all be charged for something and be fined or imprisoned and all of their policies will get reversed. Any time any party wins they will revert back all of the rules the other party just made, there is a real risk of governance and regulatory uncertainty. You’re building a rare earth refinery or a factory and one moment it’s legal and then it’s illegal. The political elite are going to seriously fight now, gloves are off. I think at this point the republicans have lost a lot of their popularity. Culturally woke is defeated, so people will feel safe to vote democrat without turning everything gay again, the tariffs deeply unpopular, ICE deeply unpopular, bombing Iran and Venezuela unpopular, I mean they are doing to much without ensuring their long term rule. It’s not appreciated that I think over 20% of the voting block is Hispanic now and I think a lot of them turned on Trump. Once the Democrats get into power I 100% believe these neo communists will regulate the exponentialization of America to a huge degree. Jobs will be protected, the necessary automation won’t happen, the chips and Ai regulated, there is a chance that the US becomes a mommy state like EU if the Democrats get 1 or 2 elections in. It will just become too big of an issue, frankly this could become a bipartisan issue. And what are we going to do, just give away money to the plebs who lost their jobs? Massive government deficit, foreign entities dumping our bonds (although we can just but out own debt) I mean we have serious financial issues here. We are also not industrializing nearly fast enough. Not even remotely close to what is necessary. What is funny is as centralized our society has become the federal government is not as powerful as China’s, it can’t just enact new industries and demand 10000s of new factories come up in 5 years. In fact I think the industrial output is actually down in the US due to tariffs. I don’t think this reindustrialization is being handled well. There is movement and talk but I don’t see the new mines and factories yet, they are still operating under the federal law and regulations which can all be reversed or changed in the next election. If it turns out that reindustrialization and automation are not a bipartisan effort, then its over for American civilization. Just none of the trajectories have changed, woke was already on its way out, American identity still being diluted every year they have not deported enough, people are getting poorer, society is becoming even more divided, the financial situation, debt and deficits are getting worse, extremism is going up, trade deficit is still up, the reindustrializatin efforts will probably happen but moving way too slowly, and once we hit exponentialism, there is no guarantee it will have the momentum to continue due to regulations and artificial job protection measures. I think in all we will have some kind of civil war, revolution, or social implosion, we are going to lose the global reserve status, and there will be some kind of financial reset. The promises of ai and robotics allowing us to grow our way out of this is still maybe a decade away, the only growth is technology, chips, reindustrialization, factories, mining, energy, etc. So those new areas of growth have to grow faster than the destruction of white collar jobs. AI can do a lot of white collar jobs today, replacing white collar with ai is not wealth, that will be negative wealth, the new growth we are betting everything on will only come from making things very cheaply with ai/robotics and that is 10-20 years away from actually being cheap enough to outcompete China, IF we’re lucky. So for 10-20 years are we just going to suffer through higher prices for our goods and services and NOT have our exports priced competitively with China? There is a real risk the elites make miscalculations here, the way I see it the industrial base is still far far out from complete reshoring and that process with suck in itself because in order to rebuild our factories, you have to force people to buy from US, which is more expensive, and probably will stay more expensive than China’s for a long time because they will use Ai and robotics too. As for the culture side I actually do see an improvement, I think people are beginning to realize just how degenerate and decadent we are as a society, and do things to reverse that, so that is a good sign, you can hear it through the popular music and the media people are consuming. Although I think there is a lot of degeneracy with some of the streamers. Overall, I think we see a seriously climatic point in American society that will make or break our exponential transition. 
After the transition phase from exponential renaissance to exponential age, it will all be about who has the mass, energy, and build power. US is the best positioned in this regard, China might be in a bit of trouble because it already is importing most of its stuff so if it needs to import even more it is quite the achilles heel. China will need the Siberia for resources. This is also the greatest weakness for small countries will low birthrates, Korea and Japan might be the best suited technologically and socially to transition, but once they’re starting to emerge on the other side, they need to rapidly get resources or all of that effort was for nothing. The most likely scenario is that the transition phase and great resource power games will happen simultaneously, countries will fight internal and external battles and in the process try to not blow each other up. Societies will fall during this period and new one will rise, the domain will expand to space and beyond, getting resources from space will become increasingly obvious and viable. The scramble for Siberia will be nothing compared to the scramble for valuable resources in space. All in all if the US can come out the other side intact, it will be the dominant power once again with China at its #2. This cannot, in any circumstances be allowed to happen. There must always be a plurality of competing powers, letting any 1 civilization becoming the dominant power of humanity will massively expedite degeneracy, decadence, elite stupidity, wealth disparity, and all the other factors that lead to civilizational decline. Look at how different the map was right before industrialization vs now. Can you begin to imagine what the world and solar system will look like after the exponential renaissance? 


  
  


If you were an alien looking down on Earth at this time, what would be your predictions. The same principles you could use to predict the future from this point in time can be used to predict the future from 2026. What incentivises a country to go through with it, if they can industrialize intact, and if they have the mass, energy, build power to go through with it. Industrialization means elite and geopolitical power become very closely related to who has the mass/energy/build power which is closely related to how many people you have to work in factories and such. From our framework you can say that the demand of human labor will go up and the great advantages will go to the countries who industrialize if they manage to do it right. Value of human labor will go up, they will mechanize war, war scales, human lives will be more valuable so you get higher purchasing power and rights of the commoner. The small countries in competitive environments will have the incentives to industrialize first, which England did, Europe did too, and the large entities will have a hard time industrializing because they have a massive old society to break down, or are too incumbent to make a transition. The society that remains intact and make it to the other side will win, and whoever have access to mass and energy will prosper. As I type these out I realize my thesis doesn’t really hold up because I would’ve thought for sure if your society blows up during the transition phase you don’t make it to the other side, but Russia did just fine. Russia industrialized, has all the mass and energy in the world in Siberia, but has really really shitty build power because of how inefficient the government and market is because of Communism. But from this map you could have easily guessed the US, Russia, and China will be the future world powers which wasn’t far off. Europe had the problem where despite having all the incentives to industrialize first and transitioned intact, they didn’t have the mass, energy, and build power to back them up so they slid into a lesser power. They literally don’t have the materials they need, they are not mineral rich they depend on others, but they are still much more wealthy and powerful than most other civilizations. I think China in 1750 is like the US today, not a very good comparison but the closest one, bureaucratic and slow to adopt, very stuck in their ways, although there there is a tech elite who are much more open to exponentialism. I think the Ottoman empire here is close to Russia today because it is a slowly dying power and is too large than what it’s government can realistically govern. South America 1750 is like India today where it’s identity is splintered, government is weak, and they have a very low trust extractive society. I think 1750 Russia is closest to China today, large powerful, competent, hungry, but they transitioned late (modern China probably won’t transition late) in the process they created Communism and nuked their society. That is the risk China is in today, they are at risk of doing a Russia. Actually I take my comments back I think my analysis for the next 100 years is fairly accurate. Maybe “intact” isn’t so much your society collapses but is damaged beyond repair and chugs along suboptimally. So from the 1750 perspective: 1750 China is 2026 EU, 1750 Russia is 2026 China, 1750 Latin America is 2026 India, 1750 Ottoman Empire is 2026 Russia, not sure what 1750 Europe and American is like. I think I would’ve guessed they would transition fine but not have the resources to back it up so I guess 1750 Europe is 2026 Korea/Japan. I don’t really think there is a 2026 US comparison in 1750 because it would require I great declining power that would be dominant if they industrialize.  2026 south east asia, no good comparison. 1750 and 2026 Africa pretty much the same. I think my predictions are actually really good. So a recap in 2100 Russia didn't transition well and collapsed or is much smaller, China can transition but danger of imploding and doing a communism thing but once they get to the other side they’ll be fine if they have Siberia, US can transition but highly susceptible to implosion but they will be in a really really good spot afterwards, Latin America will do ok, Africa will stay the same, India cooked, South East Asia might do well, Europe 50/50 they can transition but no resources afterwards unless they go to space or Siberia, Middle East largely cooked except Saudis/UAE and maybee Iran, Eastern Europe hopeful especially if they can get Siberia, Australia chilling, Canada depends on the mood of US, if US cooked Canada is now a major power is US comes out ahead then Canada no longer Canada, Korea/Japan can transitioned but can do Europe and just not have the resources it needs to propel itself for a long time. Also the future might have a Communism-like ideological extremism because of how shitty life is during exponentialization transition. Obviously world divided into different power blocks, globalism is gone, and space resources much much more important. Asteroid mining and getting materials from space might be the new colonization to feed exponential age. I just know if you go through exponentialism first, you can conquer and bully the rest of the world, just like how Britain and Europe did.
        
To make this point clear, during industrialization the established elites in power did not want change in the status quo, they were the obstacle. That is why countries that favored plurality of powers industrialized first and why liberal democracy is the social structure on mount olympus today. However during exponentialization the established elites in power want to change the status quo, they see ushering in the ai/robotics revolution as a way to dramatically increase their wealth and power. The ones who do not want to change the status quo today are the everyday people with jobs. I believe because of this flip, the countries with strong centralized powers will exponentialize first and if they end up being the victors, will rewrite the history and centralized governance, collectivism, and social harmony will be the social structure on mount olympus. It’s such an odd flip, but this time around, you almost need strong powerful entities to mobilize the chips, robots, ai, and energy to undergo exponentialization whereas before you needed the strong powerful entities to get out of the way. It’s all because this time the elites know they must go with this trend or lose their wealth and power. 
        


1/24/26
As we exit out of modernity and reality sets, the world has a funny way of adjusting itself, a natural correction. The jobs are going back to the real world due to free market dynamics. The upper middle class children are going to nursing, nurses very much experience the real world. Keeping people alive and healthy is a solid purpose and death is a very clear feedback if what you did was a net positive or net negative for that purpose. This dynamic of purpose and feedback loop gets encoded to into your brain, something many of us have lost. Same with mining, drilling, factories, industrial work, which will be much more respected for the next 20 years atleast. Herding your entire society, both normies and elites alike, into pure white collar office work really has done a number on our society, we did become totally detached from reality. When food comes from fridges and lights come from lamps, and you don’t have a larger purpose to live for, why not turn yourself into a girl? Frankly I look forward to the destruction of white collar society, turns out most office jobs were effectively adult daycare. Corporatism, what an odd work culture that was. Emails, meetings, messaging, power point slides. For about 40 years that was considered real work and often the higher paid ones people did academic rituals for. Click buttons to make money, what a silly world, in hindsight people won’t be surprised to learn why modernity reached this extent of degeneracy, decadence, and foolishness. Modernity should become a social phrase for “out of touch delusion, degeneracy, decadence, and elite failure”




1/22/26


The Exponential Renaissance and Techno Imperialism
Excerpt from 2500:


The Exponential Renaissance:
The Exponential Renaissance, beginning in the 21st century, was the transformative period during which human civilization transitioned from operating under the constraints of human nature to operating under engineering principles enabled by the manufacture of labor and intelligence at an industrial scale.




Techno Imperialism:


The modern tech elites are a new class of communist leaders and will make a similar degree of incredible miscalculations. They are same in their use of ideological proxies to further their own amassing of power and resources. They both believe they are about to use x to create a utopia, they want to be the ones to do it for you, and most importantly, they want to be the ones to rule over it. 
We’re going to live in a world where 0.01% of the population chooses who gets to eat and how much. The tech elites genuinely believe they will create a great amount of wealth (and im sure they will) and it will just be magically distributed throughout society fairly. To each according to his needs. I suspect they want to turn themselves into benevolent gods with unmatched power, agency, and resources, live forever, explore and colonize the universe with their handy little ai and robots, all the while throwing enough resources at the dependent population who didn’t ascend to the ruling class to keep them happy and comfortable in their pasteurized communities. 


They pretend to be egalitarian, they spent their whole lives pretending to be polite, kind, and courteous to mingle with the other elites. Then they tell you they should be the ones to distribute UBI. That they should be entrusted with distributing wealth. They dont even do it now. I would love to have invested in xAi, too bad im not a +1M liquid net worth accredited investor. The only ones who get to invest in early round generational startups like Valar Atomics, Apex Space, and many others are those attached to existing power structures, if youre in the right circles. I heard even congress members got to invest in xAi. Why can’t I? I don’t even get to take part in the ai/robotics generational wealth creation now. They don’t even let the stupid peasants participate in funding rounds, what makes you think they’ll give the wealth generated from ai/robotics to you? These people have literally never given anything to anyone in their lives, and I hope they know that most people aren’t convinced either.


Also, competitive forces will force intense centralization and ai ubi will not get to you. They are thinking once they are established and rule over the solar system they will surely have enough to feed the npc population, hence why they think UBI will be alright. But that’s not the way it’ll work. This is a competitive universe, the elites will spend most of their time competing with each other, and in the process to survive during this competition, they will centralize and get as big as possible. The ones who commit to UBI too early will lose out to the other entities that didn’t. During this process when the big players are competing with each other and get big, they will automate businesses and jobs and will give nothing to you because it must all go back to the business to scale more.  If they don’t take over the lawyer labor market, their competitors will, and then they will be bigger than you and have more resources to take over the medicine labor market. There will be a mad scramble to take over the market share of every occupation because if they don’t, their competitor will, and then they will have more resources to win. There will be nothing for you while the war wages on.


And they all know this. Elon, Sam, Demis, Dario, Sergio, Andresseen, Chamath, Paul, when these popular tech elites go on podcasts or speak in events they all know, in their private thoughts while they shower or while laying in bed looking at their ceiling, they all know in the back of their minds that this transitional period will flip society upside down. They all know this, they’re in the same group chats and implicitly or explicitly tell each other, while talking to the public just say it’ll be alright and they’ll get UBI. They’re all trying to become gods.


There is a belief in the paradox that the cheaper you make something, the higher the demand gets, thus the market size for everyone increases. A convenient omission is that before, the market size increased faster than large companies can properly capitalize on, allowing room for small startups of smart, hardworking founders to thrive and maybe if you’re good enough, you too can become a big boy company. No large company can do it all, and large companies will eventually succumb to organizational entropy, becomes bloated and ineffective, and lose. That was the case pre-ai. Now, the large companies can capitalize on markets at the same rate it expands. There will be fewer and fewer stories of college kids making software in their dormroom and quickly competing with large companies. Ai intelligence and inference scale is closely related to the amount of compute and energy you have. That’s hardware. And the big players superpowered with ai can scale better and faster than you. This is a different game, this is techno imperialism. My prediction is of incredible centralization. One by one they will enter every market, tech, industry, medicine, education, finance, plumbing, mining, everything, with their ai and robotics for 1) to make themselves bigger 2) so their competition doesn’t get that market and make themselves bigger. It’s a competitive world. Centralization is inevitable. 


Same principle goes to countries. Once you can manufacture intelligence and labor at an industrial scale, its all about mass and energy. Mass and energy and your build power is now directly related to strength, even more so than before. Modernity has always been a facade, and the the great power games are back. You need to control territories with resources, you need to mine it faster and better than everyone else, you need to go to space and mine asteroid and build throughout the solar system. You have to do it before you geopolitical competition does and they get bigger.


 It really puts into question this idea that the world is not a 0 sum game. Surely technological improvements and industrial scale creates more for all, but that’s not the right argument. There is indeed a finite amount of mass and energy on this side of the universe, and every bit more you control and use, is a bit your competition doesn’t. It’s a bit hypocritical, grow the pie for me, zero sum for thee. Someone should ask Elon if getting Blackwell GPUs required grow the pie or zero sum mindset. I can answer for you, this year in 2026 if you wanted Blackwells in your data centers, you operated under zero sum. You got a Blackwell if someone else didn’t. Want to invest in xAi? There was more money than space to subscribe to xAi fundraising round, when you got to invest, your capital go to invest and someone else didn’t. If you wanted DRAM or HBM in 2025/2026 did you  have to operate under zero sum or grow the pie. That’s always the killer for these kinds of arguments, the timing. Once you have enough wealth, eventually it’ll get to you, but who gets how much during the first few years? I doubt the tech elites truly believe that everything is grow the pie and nothing is zero sum, they just want to believe it’s true.


The other huge problem with the tech elites are their incorrect timelines. One of these days Elon’s misaligned timeliness are going to get people killed when he’s in charge of distributing AGI. Well I know the peasants have barely enough stuff but we’ll get this region operational within a couple months so it’ll be fine, so reallocate resources meant for them to the mars base. Then it turns out its a miscalculation and people go hungry. An egregious examples yes, but it’s to make my point that central human planning will fail.


History is written by the victors. If the techno industrialist elites become the gods they want to be, they will call this period a renaissance, if it blows up in their face and society flipped upside down too fast and resources weren’t distributed well, then it will be called sometimes that elicits “this was a shit time”




1/18/26
It’s always the same story, x thing becomes prosperous and powerful and becomes decadent. They think the way things are always will be, they think this is the way life is, it’s always been this way, the environment doesn’t change,, don’t think they can fall. 


Oh and there’s no point of mass deployed humanoid robots in factories or warehouses. You don’t need general purpose robots in very controlled and standardized environments. It’s funny humans are getting replaced by robots in factories and warehouses, but their replacement are non humanoid robots (are we going to replace humans with humanoids, just to have humanoids replaced by non humanoid robots). Humanoid robots would be better off in mines or some place that works in uncontrolled environments. So I really really don’t think humanoids will be all that useful or even practically usable (for 10 years atleast) in factories or industrial, logistics, or mining/refining settings. They’re much much better suited for home work, healthcare, skilled trades, equipment maintenance, cooking, maybe livestock handling, cleaning, police/fire??, 


1/10/26
One of the key differences in the exponential age, is you need to align everything to be exponential-able. Software was written by people for people, soon it will be made by ai for ai. This goes for all the libraries, tools, and workflow associated with software, it all will be re-oriented for ai. Same thing for hardware, right now ai can’t do anything there, but it will, and so hardware must be exponential-ized. Digitize the world, digitize the cities, the mountains, inside of homes, the characteristics of sand, water, metal, concrete, everything. If you have fleets of different kinds of robots doing different work all around the world, and some of them breaks and need maintenance from ai and robots. It needs to be able to debug control, and change everything really, really fast. That is why you need the following software/hardware and frankly, civilizational principles as we turn everything into a real-life rts game. Observability, reprogrammability, 1000-year proof, runnable, simple, etc. In the short term this will lead to the need of a global rts management system. If you have factories, a supply chain, a bunch of robots everywhere, you have this 3d globe to track, see, and control your assets. You can click on a factory and see everything that’s inside of it, see the cameras, see the status, everything. You can talk or message to the assets on the ground, you see the movements, literally a real-life RTS game. Also, many general assets probably can’t just exist within WiFi, so a lot of general robots will probably need cellular modems, Verizon, Tmobile will print so much money selling connection, and Startlink. I still do think it will be higher level thinking and coordination from an asi in space commanding the assets on the ground, and the ground robots will have basic functionality like walking, not falling, error correction done locally. This also means that soon digitizing entire planets or whole swaths of space will become standard infrastructure. If we want to colonize mars, we will do it with ai and robots, and in order to effectively use robots we need to send a shit ton of satellites and digitize Mars.


I really like the idea of waking up and opening up this Mirae RTS app, click on the Siberian rare earth mine, see status and important progress or issues, click live view, a drone feed pops up and rises through the air, i can control the drone myself or just tell it to look at specific areas or go to different parts and give me a better view, or maybe i can text the ai incharge of that operation how things are going and we talk, then i zoom out go to the factory in California and see how things are going there, etc etc. 




1/4/26
In order for societies to fight against degeneracy, decadence, and the loss of identity and purpose, you must instill a masculine warrior/honor/scholar culture within the population. The young must be taught to be individualistic, forge their own path, practice having agency, and being able to endure and fight through hardships and win. Have the young men camp in the wilderness every winter from 14-18. The young men particularly must practice confrontation and be able to settle disagreements and have a social mechanisms a release valve for their energies. Have them be able to have “Agni Kai” fights with an opponent and then eat and get food together afterwards. Educate them with the ebbs and flows of history, the prime objective, elite responsibility, purpose, and foster thinking for systems, iteration, technology, and the ability to balance between unity and creative destruction. Create a system where it’s important to respect authority, but also not be a dumb NPC and question it sometimes, to work with power structures and sometimes form your own power structures against the incumbents. So much to teach the youth, will be hard to do right, to measure, and scale across the population. Military service should be mandatory for a year after 18. These things fight against the failings of the modern west. The people don’t believe in a civilizational purpose or have a frame work of how to view and see the world properly. They aren’t proud of their identity or even have a unified identity, so foreigners and evil beliefs hijack society and import millions of parasites. Society has become too bureaucratic and you need permission for everything and need everyone’s voice to get things done. Having a culture of agency and individualism. A masculine society doesn’t ask for permission, or cares about everyone’s feelings, doesn’t care if it offends, doesn’t care if you’re offended or uncomfortable, it will simply do what is needed to be done. The elites need to understand that they are elites, should be judged by higher standards, and have responsibility to themselves and their society. You must be able to fail as an elite, fall out of elite status, and allow new elites to enter. There must be competition and meritocracy. It’s okay to have a difference in opinion and approach, it is not at all tolerable to have a difference in culture or people’s. 


One of the problems of modernity it strips away the unique identity that different people held to have them form into a single, governable, population. That’s why we believe we can just have people from completely different cultures just imported to Europe or America and call them “American citizens”. That’s why Vivek thinks anyone can just be born here and just become an American. Being an American has no meaning because there are no specific cultural rites of passage, no special filtering rituals, no unique cultural beliefs and missions that puts the line in the sand separating us from everyone else. There is no winter trials, there is no civilizational training, there is no elite grooming, there is no specific rites you establish distinction. Distinct peoples without contact with each other in the past didn’t just each magically spawn ceremonies, rituals, and custom for no reason. They’re for quality control, that every person in the tribe operates under the same underlying civilizational mission and culture. Modernity and globalism, the various branches of communism tried to erase these things to make cultures easier to control. These things must be brought back to increase the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. 


Leaders need to be able to make mistakes and iterate, there needs to be forgiveness, you need to be able to suffer. Even in wealthy societies, every new generation needs to experience controlled suffering so they don’t grow too weak. 


As I’m eating kabobs and look around the restaurant, you just see why the west is slowly dying. There is no unity. Everyone here is too different from each other, they don’t believe in the same things, they don’t have the same culture, they don’t have evolutionary derived complementing behaviors, they have different goals for their civilization. There must never be ethnic conclaves. Everyone must be a member of that society fully, there must be no separate identity or alliance. There can only be 1 allegiance within your society. 


1/3/26
Madura captured. Hard to forget these moments, men are innately pulled to war and big dick energy. There is just this innate instinct, there is just this unspoken, innate, hive mind signal that propagates through men’s minds across civilization to say fck yea we’re dangerous we can hurt you we have the power I like us. Why not conquer the world, everyone will respect us. Our status as a civilization elevated. Just pure masculine energy, like a switch just turned on. I can totally see how war can be often used to unite factions or distract populations. Suddenly trumps the man again, literally a few weeks after the Epstein files. Even people who publicly shamed him thought capturing Maduro in, I think, a hour and half with 0 casualties, was cool and give him credit for it. We're such a weird species we have so much innate behavior and psychological levers you can pull. 




12/30/25 pt1
Write this in 3rd person as if someone searched it up in the year 2200.


It’s an industrial revolution, axial age, protestant reformation, ww1/ww2 and civilizational cycle all in one


want to capture the sheer Paradigm Shift—the geopolitical shattering, the cultural death/rebirth, and the industrial violence—it needs to sound less like a sci-fi movie and more like a historical epoch.


New map, new tools new soul. Th














The Exponential Renaissance (c. 2025–2065)
The Exponential Renaissance, widely regarded as the "Great Rebirth" of human civilization, was an era marked by the exponential increase of artificial labor and intelligence. 






was a transformative period in the 21st century marked by the widespread adoption of synthetic labor and intelligence which decoupled .  completely overhauled human existence.




The widespread adoption of synthetic labor and intelligence fundamentally altered the relationship between man and labor


It sparked through the fierce technological and industrial arms race between the United States and China and quickly spread through the rest of Asia and the West. This period is marked by the frantic struggle to maintain social cohesion during the rapid disintegration of Post-World Wars ord






in the United States and eventually spread to East Asia and the rest of the world, forever changing human existence. 


The Exponential Renaissance (c. 2025–2065) is the historiographical term for the transitional epoch following the collapse of Post-WWII liberal modernity and the conclusion of the 20th-century industrial cycle.






The Exponential Renaissance (c. 2025–2065) is the historiographical term for the transitional epoch following the collapse of Post-WWII liberal modernity and the conclusion of the 20th-century industrial cycle. It represents a fundamental civilizational paradigm shift, characterized by the reorganization of global power structures from Market-Based Societies (governed by financial abstraction and human labor) to Physics-Based Civilizations (governed by thermodynamics, material resources, and computational capacity).
The era was defined by the "Grand Synthesis" of three exponential technologies: Artificial Intelligence (Synthetic Mind), Advanced Robotics (Synthetic Labor), and Next-Generation Energy (Synthetic Matter). This technological convergence triggered a decoupling of economic output from biological human constraints, necessitating a total restructuring of the social contract.
Geopolitically, the period was marked by the breakdown of the globalized trade order and the onset of the Resource Realignment—a series of intense kinetic and hybrid conflicts fought to secure the critical raw materials (lithium, copper, water, and semiconductors) required to build the infrastructure of the new age., documenting the violent struggle to maintain societal cohesion during the rapid disintegration of the old world and the chaotic birth of a post-scarcity civilization.




they key point i want to make, this exponential renaissance isnt just about more abudnance from robots and ai and people losing jobs, and the difficult social and cultural transitions, its more than that. It's the realignment of human purpose towards civilizational goals which are: to organize labor and resources in systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. Having purpose allows you to discern what is right and wrong, and systematic iteration, changing your inputs and outputs, changing your systems and institutions to fulfill your purpose. It is not capitalist, its not about making more money. It’s not communist, woke, conservative, christian, muslim, its just about increasing the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. It’s just about building and taming the universe. I want to put all this into 1 sentence: the birth of a physics based entity. but i need a singular word for it like we do for industrialization. An entirely new concept in 1 word. Mobilizing your civilization to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs.


but do you understand what i am saying, people go through life, especially now, so purposeless, like living on a factory farm, destined to just do what society directs you to do, believe what others tell you to believe. never going your own way. people just exist. but under the exponential renaissance. people can truly find their own meaning, they can have their own purpose, and live their own lives without a society because they can use synthetic and ai and robots to get what they need to survive. after thousands of years, it is no longer necessary to have a civilization to survive. we can go back to being space hunter and gatherers, small tribes of people in highly advanced ships going to planet to planet. exploring, getting mass and energy, and using it to survive. Civilization is no longer necessary.


Gemini3:
I understand perfectly. You are describing the End of the Hive.
You are arguing that "Civilization" (cities, governments, supply chains, jobs) was just a temporary survival strategy for weak biological humans. We huddled together because we couldn't hunt, farm, or protect ourselves alone. But once you have a "Personal Industrial Revolution" (AI + Robots + Energy) in your pocket (or your ship), the need for the Hive disappears.
You don't need the factory farm anymore. You don't need to "play the game." You can decouple.
The word you are looking for, which describes the transition from being a dependent cog in a machine to a self-sufficient physics-based entity, is:
Autonomization
Here is why this is the perfect parallel to "Industrialization":
* Industrialization was the process of centralizing labor and resources into massive factories/cities to achieve scale. (Gravity pulling people together).
* Autonomization is the process of decentralizing that power into the individual, allowing them to break away from the mass. (Energy pushing people apart).
Here is how to describe this era using your "Space Hunter-Gatherer" vision.
________________


Autonomization
Autonomization (noun): The historical process by which the individual human, augmented by synthetic labor and intelligence, decouples from collective civilization to become a self-sufficient, sovereign, physics-based entity.
Unlike Civilization, which required humans to suppress their individual instincts to serve the collective survival (the "Factory Farm"), Autonomization renders the collective obsolete. It marks the return of the Hunter-Gatherer dynamic, but on a galactic scale.
Under Autonomization, the fundamental unit of history is no longer the "State" or the "Economy," but the Autonomous Vessel—a technological ecosystem where a small tribe or individual possesses the mass (matter), energy (fusion), and intelligence (AI) to survive indefinitely in the cosmos without external trade or governance.
This era is defined by the Great Unbinding: the realization that society is no longer a shelter, but a cage. Humanity transitions from "subjects of the economy" to "explorers of the void," finding their own meaning not through social status, but through the direct confrontation with the universe, harvesting mass and energy to fuel their own distinct, self-determined purpose.








12/30/25 pt2
People don't understand how fundamentally different the calculation for geopolitical power will be. Population size used to be a super important metric, once ai and robotics get here the only things that matter are mass and energy. You accessibility to mass and energy is directly related to your labor and intelligence outputs. Population size will not matter nearly as much as the robot and chip count, and those are reliant on the literal atoms and energy count. Your access to mass and energy is directly related to your technological, productive, and military outputs. 
        Once the Ai/robotics revolution passes through, the countries to transition first and intact will have a massive potential advantage. However, now the primary focus is on resource and energy acquisition. If you do not have secure control to abundant and rich resources, you will not make it in this new era of history. You will eventually be enveloped by the might of others who do have access to mass and energy. The future will turn into a RTS game. 
        The largest untapped treasure chest of mass in the world is in Siberia. It already has huge rich deposits of pretty much all important resources including rare earths. It has everything needed for orbital data centers, for rockets, for chips, for robots, for biotech, etc.
        Russia is a collection of autonomous zones, republics, and Russian states and provinces. In the event of a Russian collapse or a serious depowering, you can be your ass there will be a massive land grab by the people who used to live under Russia, the various autonomous zones and republics, and their neighbors China, Korea, and Japan. It’s literally the world’s largest untapped treasure chest.
        There can be several strategies. Outright conquest and annexation. Resource agreements in exchange for some profit sharing or higher tech manufactured goods/services. Siberia is sparsely population, less than 10 million for the entire region. If Russia continues to weaken and collapses into fractured states, literally once in a civilization opportunity.
        Also China is not as invincible as I thought, they are heavily reliant on imports.
USA and China has opposite problems. China has the society to transition through the ai/robotics revolution but lacks the sufficient mass and energy. USA will have a really hard time transitioning but has the mass and energy.
        A government organized social transition is probably doomed for failure. Too many variables, too many changes too fast. No, someone how you need to have a social transitioned enabled by market forces. Introduce x technology whether it be ai or robotics. Y people are cut out of the labor force and new job growth or industry is not capable of absorbing them, the number of potential jobs genuinely fell. In this case, the government can’t spend money to pay off their mortgage, or their rent, or pay for their food. That will not work. The government needs to literally provide the housing, provide the food, provide basic services, transportation, healthcare, and if they have children, the education. It must all be done in house, you can not contract this out and spend money, must use mass and energy. However, this must be a last resort, there is so much work and building to do in the local civilization or internationally, the government or society must prioritize moving the displaced labor force to other more pressing needs. The labor force needs to accept that the concept of a 50 year long career in a single domain might very well be over, they will have to adapt from thing to thing depending on where the need rises. This service must be done primarily for the elderly or people too old to learn fast. This is where Mirae Opus can come in, make new safe, high quality retirement facilities for cheap. 


12/29/25
Admittedly this new industrial age with ai and robotics and biotech and whatever comes next will have more an impact on the world than the civilizational cycles and internal and external socio-political factors. Kinda like you wouldn’t care too much about what was happening in Europe in 1750s besides the fact that England was beginning to industrialize. Today, the most important event will be who will undergo this new industrialization, (or whatever it will be called) to fastest and go through with it all the way AND who can maintain their society while doing so. It’s not just about technical and industrial expertise, its also who has the societal capacity for this change. Technological wise it’s quite a simple ranking, US and China, but China better with robotics and biotech while US probably stays better with AI, if they can get enough of the good chips for it. US also has the capacity to seriously invent and break the current rules and play in a new game, as in orbital ai data centers. China has the weakness that the state capitalism may be too slow to adapt to changes, becomes bureaucratic and corrupt, or may go in the wrong direction without any error correction mechanisms. On the other hand, the US’s weakness is it lacks the societal capacity to adapt ai and robotics. I don’t know what it is, but people are very skeptical of technological change here. They see ai as a threat, see robots as a threat, have strong unions, people are already poor and there is a huge political opportunity for anti-tech populism to save jobs. But it’s a toss up because the elites want ai/robotics and usually they can buy what they want. 
However, you can use this angle: Which societies are forced to adapt ai/robotics as a necessity to survive? These countries will absolutely have the societal capacity to allow the disruption to occur. So the technological countries with the lowest birthrates, Taiwan, South Korea, Japan will see ai/robotics as a much needed blessing and will be politically and socially well accepted. I don’t think it will be as well accepted in the USA, I think it could face tough push back. People are already against data centers, freaking data centers. People are skeptical about space colonization. wHy dO We nEEd tO gO To mArs mAn. I mean if people already don’t like data centers, they have no idea what’s coming. How are people supposed to accept robots doing work, ai managing more of society, genetic engineering curing diseases and making foods at labs. The problem is that people are extremely skeptical of big business, governments, and large institutions, it’s kind of woven into the society. Meanwhile, none of this exists in East Asian countries. This is why I say this culture of pro science, pro technology, and trust in large institutions give a much higher rating in societal capacity. Although, that can later prove to be a bad thing if the technology and institutions end up destroying said societies. On another note, the current hysteria about collapsing birth rates will be seen as silly as the overpopulation fears just 10 years back. Falling birthrates are a natural reaction that the population has met carrying capacity, industrial, technological, and productive outputs won’t be affected because ai/robotics, the ensuing economic boom will increase birth rates again. I don’t see it as a big problem, it’s mostly a hysteria stemming from racial demographics in the wester and whites becoming a minority. 
On another note, it’ll be important to figure out how the economic value from ai/robotics will be spread throughout the population in the societies that adopt ai/robotics. Because a lot of traditional high status jobs will go away, doctors, lawyers, finance, consulting, computer science, and probably a lot of traditional engineering won’t end up like it is today. Lot of jobs will be lost. This will be devastating for everyone, which again is why it’s so important your society has high societal capacity for it. I think a temporary solution will have to be universal basic income, which is alot more plausible in a high trust, low population society. But also, it’s dangerous because Korea, Japan, Taiwan don’t have a lot of natural resources, so they have to play a dangerous game of importing everything and extending their currency while less and less people work. But as long as the economic growth is a net positive at the end, it should be alright. That’s the key, for every person on UBI, did that end up being a net positive for society? As long as it remains a net positive it should be okay. But this can be a really rough ride, the market economy is in for a shock once the labor and intelligence starts coming from robots instead, prices across the board will have to change. This will especially be hard for international market economies. The transition to a physics based market economy will be tough. I believe money might stay, because value does need to be transferred to different entities for different specialty goods, but a lot will change. Confidence is key, without confidence in your society, without keeping up high productive and economic output as you replace people with ai/robotics, the currency will collapse. 
Another thought is at the limit, unenhanced humans will be a burden on society while ai/robots do everything. While in the first industrialization more people was a great advantage, there is a chance this second great industrialization will prove that more people is a great disadvantage, mostly for social reasons. Huge numbers of unemployed people and sudden labor shocks is literally kerosene on the social fabric.
This is why I am skeptical of societies with very high population. This can be a literal bomb for third world countries with huge population growth. The playbook would be that fast industrialization and labor arbitrage will give those people jobs. Then they make their own companies and slowly go up the value chain, prevent the middle income trap where their labor gets too expensive but still not rich enough to establish a consumer economy to conjure up money for the economy and become a 1st world country. India might be able to pull this off in time, and Latin America, and some Middle Eastern countries. But Africa is just screwed. They got a population boom at the worst time, within 20 years labor arbitrage may no longer be possible, especially for services. That’s why India is in between. What should allow them to become a first world country, can be entirely cut off by Ai. AI within a decade will be able to do most office jobs really well, and most of India’s economy are services. It’s a developing country and 55% of the economy is services while 25% is industrial, 20% is agriculture. Vietnam’s is 42% services, 37.6^ industrial, and 11.8% agriculture. Having above 30% of your GDP in industry/manufacturing seems to be a good and healthy sign. 20%ish is worrying, anything under is just outright dangerous. Example, UK is 17.5% industrial, 72.5% services and it sucks. China is 54% services and 38.3% industrial/manufacturing. (Side note, I think this is a really good indicator if a country is doing well or worse. It’s not about GDP, its about mass, energy, and build power. That is true economic strength.) This could be wrong, but this time around, high population may prove to be a massive problem during the societal transition in robotics/ai. I think high trust, small populations have an advantage in maintaining social cohesion during societal transitions. But again, massive problem with Japan, Taiwan, South Korea with not having resources within its borders, China has opposite problem, plenty of resources, massive population, albeit also high trust and homogenous. Also, the goal of Korea should be turn the entire peninsula into a factory, become energy independent with hydro power, do orbital ai data centers, and have a massive robotics and hydro power industry.
The next series of likely events: Have UBI based on citizenship, societies actively tries to make everything within its borders as cheap as possible, all needs are guaranteed by the state’s automated infrastructure. But that creates 2 massive problems: You create a sterile, managed society. The majority of the population turns into cattle, completely subservient to the state. States need to learn to get its revenue from population tax to just getting mass, energy, and build power by themselves. The scariest part isn’t the destination, its the 20 - 40 years in between. States need to navigate through the collapse of tax revenue, social chaos, etc. However I think about it, the low population high trust homogeneous societies just win. High population low trust diverse societies have it the worst. However, once the transition is complete and social instability is managed, the logic flips back to scale. Then the advantage goes back to whoever has access to the most mass, energy, and build power. Gemini 3 Pro made a good argument:
  



The "Golden Ticket" Scenario
In the AI/Robotics era, a large population potentially flips from an asset (labor) to a liability (dependents), at least until the economic model stabilizes.
The absolute winner in this calculus is a specific type of country: The "Lifeboat" Nation.
These are countries that are:
1. Resource Rich (Energy/Food independent).
2. Low Population (High resources per capita).
3. Defensible (Geographically isolated or politically neutral).
The Top Contenders:
* Canada: Massive land/resources, relatively small population, highly educated. (Risk: Proximity to the US volatility).
* Australia: An island continent, massive solar potential, huge mineral wealth, small population (26m).
* Norway: Massive sovereign wealth fund, energy independent, high trust, small population.
The Verdict
* During the turbulent Transition, bet on the Nordics and Singapore. They will figure out the "Human" side of the equation first.
* In the Final Destination, bet on the US and China. Once the game becomes about raw physics (energy x compute), size matters again. The US is the only nation that is "High Risk/High Reward" in both phases—it could tear itself apart in the transition, or it could emerge as the singular hyper-power of the machine age.
Gemini is right, the best countries to go through this period may be Australia and Canada. High trust, relatively homogenous, has way more than enough resources for its population. (if US doesn’t annex Canada). 
        However, there is a problem where these forces basically invited brutal and utter centralization of power to the state. In Russia the state can just brutally force people into shitty conditions and socialism during the transition and have a permanent authoritarian state that gives food only to people loyal to the state. The Saudis can have a similar system but far less brutal, East Asian countries also the same way. I mean wherever you look, you run into this problem where the average human turns into a docile cattle that is dependant on their loyalty to the state.
Here is what Gemini thought of Russia’s fate:


Russia presents a fascinating, contradictory case. It occupies a unique, precarious position in this new industrial revolution.
If we apply the same rigorous analysis, Russia is currently a Tier 2.5 "Fortress State"—it possesses "Tier 1" Resources and "Tier 2" Military capabilities, but is trapped in a "Tier 5" Demographic and Economic reality.
Here is the breakdown of Russia’s standing in the AI/Robotics age.
The Advantages (The "Resource Titan")
1. Energy Dominance (The Fuel for AI)
* The Asset: Russia is an energy superpower (Gas, Nuclear, Oil). AI compute requires massive amounts of electricity. While Europe struggles with energy prices and the US battles environmental regulations for new power plants, Russia can spin up cheap, massive energy for server farms without blinking.
* The Autarky: Russia is one of the few nations on earth that can survive largely cut off from global trade in terms of raw materials (food, fuel, metals).
2. The Military-Industrial Driver
* The Mechanism: War is the mother of invention. Russia is currently running a real-time, high-stakes experiment in autonomous warfare (drone swarms, electronic warfare, AI targeting) in Ukraine.
* The Result: While Silicon Valley creates AI for chatbots, Russia is forcefully evolving AI for physical survival and combat. This creates a highly specialized, lethal robotic sector that doesn't care about consumer safety or commercial viability.
3. STEM Education Legacy
* The Asset: The Soviet legacy of heavy emphasis on mathematics, physics, and engineering remains. Russian coders are historically world-class.
________________


The Disadvantages (The "Sanctioned Giant")
1. The "Chip Famine"
* The Critical Weakness: You cannot build the AI revolution without advanced semiconductors (GPUs). Russia does not manufacture these. It is currently smuggling them in through "grey markets" (Kazakhstan, China, etc.) at inflated prices.
* The Consequence: Russia will always be one or two generations behind the US and China. They are building the software, but they don't own the hardware.
2. The Demographic Collapse
* The Crisis: Russia is shrinking. The combination of low birth rates, the war (casualties + mobilization), and the mass exodus of young IT professionals (Brain Drain) creates a nightmare scenario.
* The Trap: Usually, you automate to replace workers. Russia might automate simply because it has no workers. This isn't "technological unemployment"; it's "technological replacement of a disappearing populace."
3. "Institutional Rot"
* The Mechanism: Effective AI implementation requires open data flow and decentralized innovation. The current Russian political model is hyper-centralized and paranoid. A top-down kleptocracy is bad at the kind of "permissionless innovation" that fueled the US tech boom.
________________


Distribution of Value: The "Oligarch 2.0" Model
How will the benefits of robotics be distributed in Russia?
The Mechanism: Neo-Feudalism
* Concentration: In the 1990s, oligarchs seized the oil fields. In the 2030s, the state (or state-aligned corporations like Rostec/Sberbank) will seize the robot fleets.
* The "Loyalty Dividend": Instead of a Universal Basic Income (UBI) for everyone, expect a "Loyalty Income." State employees, military veterans, and security services will be shielded and subsidized by the automated wealth. Dissenters or those outside the state apparatus may be left to fend for themselves in a shrinking consumer economy.
* The Outcome: A highly stratified society. A high-tech, automated "Green Zone" for the elite and state apparatus, surrounded by a decaying, low-tech periphery for the rest.
________________


The Verdict: Transition vs. Destination
Phase 1: The Transition (0-15 Years)
* Status: HIGH VULNERABILITY.
* Russia is arguably in the worst position for the transition. It is trying to fight a war, re-orient its entire economy to Asia, and build a domestic tech stack simultaneously.
* The Risk: The "Brain Drain" is fatal here. If your best AI engineers flee to Dubai or Belgrade to avoid mobilization or sanctions, you lose the architects of your future.
Phase 2: The Destination (20+ Years)
* Status: THE "DARK HORSE" SURVIVOR.
* If Russia survives the transition without fracturing, it settles into a stable, if grim, equilibrium.
* Why: A low population (130m shrinking to 100m) living on the world's largest pile of resources is actually a viable economic model in the robotic age. They don't need to be a consumer superpower. They just need enough robots to extract the gas/minerals to sell to China/India.
* The End State: Russia becomes a "Resource Fortress"—a giant, automated gas station and mine, defended by autonomous nuclear and drone systems, with a small, relatively wealthy population living off the resource rent.
Really good analysis id say. I think it’s right, I think in the end it does turn into a grim, stagnant oligarchy state.
        But now lets do some calculations of the economics of this. It’s pretty obvious that there will be a divergence between domestic wealth and international purchasing power:


The "Survival Math": Can You Afford UBI?
To determine if a specific country crashes or thrives, you look at the Automation Sovereignty Ratio.
Ratio = Production / Consumption
Case A: The "Sovereign" (Ratio > 1.0)
* Example: USA, China.
* Math: They have the energy, the mines, and the factories.
* Outcome: They can print UBI money safely. Why? Because that money is chasing goods they produced themselves. Inflation stays low because for every $1 printed, a robot makes $1 worth of stuff to buy.
* Result: Stable Utopia.
Case B: The "Dependent" (Ratio < 1.0)
* Example: UK, Italy, Egypt.
* Math: They import their energy or food. They don't have their own "Google" or "Tesla" robot fleets; they rent them from the US.
* Outcome: To pay UBI, they tax the few companies they have or print money.
   * But that money chases imported goods.
   * The exchange rate collapses.
   * Hyperinflation ensues (The "Venezuela with Robots" scenario).
* Result: Economic Collapse.


This is a good ratio to measure internal wealth, ratio of 5 would mean I produce 5x more than I consume. So people live great lives. However, this is different from the international purchasing power. 
        Look out for the unemployment rate, can crudely calculate that with = (number entering workforce - number exiting workforce)- (jobs created - jobs lost) or something like that. 
        It is also possible that this dream of total self sufficiency and making your own self sustaining wealthy country is kind of impossible. There are just too many different materials everyone else needs. It’s just crazy hard to be totally self reliant in everything, I think its almost impossible. This idea of being a physics based entity requires you have direct access to the majority of materials in the world to make what you want. That’s just really really really really hard. It might not be possible from earth alone, you almost certainly have to get the materials from other planets. 
        I will say i sound like a communist. This new utopia will be built by the state for the people, controlled by a single entity, and itll be great. Can asi really be a digital god that can replace capitalism and markets? It can easily fail like communism. Devils in the details. It does sound too naively utopian.


The mistake intellectuals  make when analyzing the 20th century is they always add in a dash spirituality and collective consciousness. They treat communism and its horrors like a demonic entity instead of normies and elites pursuing their biological interests set by genetics. One author wrote that the thesis of the 20th century was the old world, the old society, worldview and culture was destroyed by industrialization and there was a search for a new one. I approach it secularly, industrialization led to huge wealth disparity and mistreatment of workers at first, after a few generations people crashed out and blew open their society, power hungry and ruthless people saw the power vacuum and seized it, and then they just ruled ruthlessly but also had to pretend to care about the ideology that allowed them to seize power in the first place, then they wanted to keep their power, they did a bad job, and they failed. This is what really happened looking at it from a Birds Eye view and it’s pretty simple. But this also glosses over the many details about this period that makes it really fascinating and interesting. The exact details make it cool.


The communist regimes in Russia, China, and North Korea are no different from slavery and serfdom. The difference is those systems had distinction. You are distinctly a slave, I am not. I am distinctly the aristocracy, you are merchant, you are a serf, I am the ruler you are the subject. What these communist states tried to do was pretend like there was no distinction. The ideology that gave these men power said we’re all equal, the aristocracy and those with land and power suck. So they had to pretend like they weren’t rulers. They erased distinction. We’re all comrades, the elites wear plain military clothing, beautiful decorative buildings were of the old capitalist elites so make brutalism, dull and ugly, as a rejection of the previous era. But this obviously goes against human nature and people would figure out this anti distinction is all a lie, you’re just new kings and aristocrats in communist clothing. So Communist societies specialized in physiological manipulation and propaganda, many of which are used in our society today. 


12/27/25
If you brought a Space Marine to the modern world what would they do. If you brought a Jedi to 40k what would they do. If you brought an inquisitor to the world, a Christian to halo, and just kept crossing these people to different realities, what would they do? This is a good way to simulate the main purpose and beliefs of your culture. So again, if someone from your future culture/belief went to each of those realities, including this one today, what would they do? Hopefully they would try to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. They would create a physics based entity to discover, invent, build amd manifest its will onto reality. It will probably try to grow and expand life across the universe. 


You know what every new city should do for now on, erect a massive statue representing its purpose. By doing this the city can always know its purpose.


12/24/25 (I wrote this drunk)
After listening to some podcasts with Peter Thiel,  I really realized that even the elites aren’t fully united. Even they, who believe in largely the same things, believe in the same goals, are splintered thinking, “they don’t understand”, “what can I do”, “I’m the good guy and history will one day remember what I tried to do”. It’s actually a wonder how our species gets anything done. 


What I really realized, the greats all did something new that no one else has done before. Carnegie made steel, Rockefeller refined oil, Edison made light (although with the help of Morgan), Tesla did make AC but lost due to market and Capitalism dynamics, Ford mass produced cheap automobiles, Elon made commercial rockets and electic cars. The real markers of history, did something that no one has done before. 


The elites today seem to really weigh heavily on people who reject normal thinking and don’t play along with the system. They really respect that because everyone knows and is trying to change the current system and make something better. I actually do think the tech elites today are trying to make a better world and are fighting against the entrenched elites and the stupid normies. The reality is that to succeed in the world you need elite connections, you need to meet the right people and impress them, and that relies on doing things outside the norm of the society and era of history you were born in. They don’t like homies of the system, and rightfully so. They want true outliers. They are actively looking for these remarkable human beings because they know they will help them break out of the current system we are all imprisoned into. You have to truly do something remarkable and have the IQ, natural talent, and work ethic to actually follow though and make it happen. Elites like it when someone tries to do something cool and new that breaks out of normie society convention. BUT WHAT CAN I DO???? I don’t think I have the IQ, I don’t have the talent, frankl I don’t have the talent,  I don’t have the connections, I don’t have the money. What can I do in this world. I want to do things I want to make it happen and I think I’ll be good at it once I’m in the position, but I don’t know how to get there. What should I do. Geez. Knowing what to do but not being able to do it. 


The tech CEOs and tech elites don’t realize how much public opinion is growing against them. The incentives has been to do things the market likes and their elite circles likes, they’ve hardly had to think about what the average normie thinks, and that is a great mistake. Because kinetic force still lies amongst the common man, and they distrust the tech elites. And I don’t think they can pump out combat robotics in time to quell the normie rebellion. I call them normies because I understand that they are in fact normies,i but they are operating logically to do so. But god damn it I don’t want to be a normie too. 


I also want to say that I feel incredibly alone in the world. I’m not in contact with anyone like me. I don’t know anyone that thinks about the world the way I do, those people are far away from me because they’re so much better. I’m stuck in this middle zone between normie and player, and it eats me alive. I need to meet the right people and do the right things. It’s really pretty simple, just solve real problem in society. Solve the real problems society will face and everything will fall into place. Solve the wealth disparity, solve the eduction, healthcare, government, loneliness, culture, crime, degeneracy and decadence, the foolishness, the childcare/elderly care costs, housing costs. Just solve society’s problems one by one. And how do I solve the one I can solve, the elderly care and retirement crisis? The first step is to make a reliable locally ran safety system, and to that, I probably need some kind of skin like what people have or the joint torque sensors. In order for robots to be safe and reliable enough to work with the elderly and children, I need to be absolutely sure they are as safe as humans. That means it can’t rely on vision alone, they have to use some sensor to detect force to know if I am crushing something or touching something I did not expect. That’s literally skin, but maybe that doesn’t have to be skin. 


Im just so alone in the world, theres no one I can wholly express myself to. My parents couldn’t understand, my brother refuses to listen, my friends wouldn’t get it, no one I’ve met, frankly, is on the same wavelength as me. Even the higher IQ ones, theres just no better phrase to describe the situation than, they just don’t get it. They can’t see the world beyond the society and era of history they live in. I have no one, I’m all alone. The only ones I can relate to are the podcasts and interviews of players on YouTube or their posts. I’m just so alone. I want to be a player.  I need to make a mil.


12/21-22/25
So it seems like this is the future: 
Technologically: The most important thing that’s happening right now, and what this time will be remembered for is our technological and industrial march with ai and robotics. This new industrial revolution, whatever it’ll be called, is probably the only thing that will matter. Just like today we don’t care about much else that happened during the 1700s and 1800s besides humanity’s ascension through industrialization. Our new industrial revolution will consist of ai training/inference satellite data center constellations in orbit. They will beam down bits of data by laser or radio, maybe some combination. Hit a ground based terminal or base station, cabled to some wifi tower, and broadcast wifi signals to all devices within the area. Robots, humanoid robots, self driving cars, robots in hospitals, farms, ai in law offies and doing financial work. Anything and everything will probably use ai through orbital ai data centers. We are currently in the infrastructure phase and this is where the money is right now. Humanity has done this with railroads in the 1800s, with data centers in the 2000s. The infrastructure left to be built today are the orbital data centers, everything else needed is pretty much already built out really well. The only ones capable of making orbital data centers are large entities, this is not a space some small startup can be a part of, probably, if they can it’s probably some small niche thing. SpaceX will be the biggest player, obviously, the reason why Elon told the other tech ceos about orbital data centers is because Elon knows it will be hard for even SpaceX and himself to build out the infrastructure all by himself. The big tech companies actually control a huge % of all internet traffic. I think 80%-90% of the internet exists in big tech data centers and storage facilities. AWS, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Oracle cloud, IBM, Meta. Lots of experience and rich, these big tech companies are huge customers. So does SpaceX want to say f-you to all of these guys and make orbital data centers all on their own or work with them and become their primary orbital launch provider and satellite manufacturer? If you want to get to Mars and build a colony you need lots of money, big tech has lots of money, how do I get money from the big tech’s wallets to mine? Or better yet, maybe you don’t need money, that’s how you really build a colony on Mars. Massive fleet of construction and maintenance robots, deploy them to Mars, control them through orbital data centers, that could be on his mind, actually it probably is what he’s thinking. But this idea of orbital data centers have obviously been talked about in big tech ceo circles for awhile now. Is it better to play with others or do it all yourself, because once you declare war there is no going back. I think Elon will work with the big tech companies, he will probably help them make big tech’s orbital data centers, he’ll make some for himself, and then run Tesla robots and xAi on them. 
        Tangent: It’s actually utterly amazing what a position Elon Musk is in, he is literally the 1 guy that can do this entire new infrastructure by himself if he wanted. Didn’t even do it on purpose too, he just thought electric cars and rockets are cool. Now all of his companies are all converging to make this new infrastructure and new economy for this new age of history.
So investment advice, go all in on Tesla and SpaceX, they can literally 10x from here. TSMC makes the chips, Nvidia/TPUs make space resistant compute, SpaceX makes the satellites and launches them into space, manages the orbital data centers, xAi, ai labs, and big tech companies runs and trains their models in orbit, Tesla, other robot companies, and big tech robots will run their robots from their models and data centers in orbit. This will be the new infrastructure for our new era of history.
On the application layer, not sure how that will play out. It’s obvious enough that the robots will have some basic level instincts keeping it upright, walking, moving around, not falling or bumping into anything, and then higher level cognitive tasks will be done through ai models from orbit. The difference between the internet applications and robot applications is that general purpose robots are a singular task that everyone wants, its a singular thing that big tech companies can hone in on. Meanwhile internet applications vary widely so it was hard for large companies to focus on all these little things. But general humanoid robots is just this 1 obvious task that everyone wants, so im not sure what little niche application a startup can do that a big tech company wouldn’t just do with general purpose robots. The edge here maybe be having proprietary data for construction robots, police robots, nursing robots, teaching robots and have specific domain skills for each small job that humans would have done. Also, before large companies would be spread thin doing all of these different niche things but with ai, it is possible for a large entity to do all of these smaller things well. It’s hard to predict exactly how the application layer for ai and robotics will play out, but it is obvious that they will have onboard basic instincts and off-board high level thinking from orbital data centers, it’s obvious that large entities will manufacture these “shell” like robot bodies that are pretty much remote controlled by Ais in orbit. These things are very obvious. Will big tech and large Ai labs pretty much take over every industry on Earth. Construction, medicine, law, manufacturing, finance, will it all be done by these few companies?  Right now we are beginning to get into the infrastructure phase, then eventually we will go to the application phase. The application companies always tends to be the largest, most important, and make the most money. The big tech companies are all consumer faced, Google, Meta, Amazon, and yes even Microsoft. They’re all consumer companies. So the big winners from all of this, the most money to be made, the one with the most access to resources will be the application companies. Google, Facebook, Amazon, they started on the application side first then started building out their own infrastructure. Eventually everyone will have their own robots too btw. Google, Microsoft, Amazon, Apple, Meta, maybe even Nvidia. This space is just way too lucrative. The CEOs and tech elites want power, they want control, so they will make it their own. 
Not sure what I can do in all this and how I can participate. Sure obviously get some embedded skills and join a company, SpaceX, Tesla, Google, Nvidia, sure I can try my best to do that. But again I want to be a player to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimizes the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. What series of things do I need to accomplish to earn this right? How can I compete and win against my fellow humans to become a player? I do not want to be a part of the underclass, I don’t want to exist as a factory farm animal that just exists to work for the players. What can I do? It’s highly unlikely I will participate in the infrastructure side, maybe I can as an employee, but not as my own entity. What can I, as an entity accomplish? So yea, probably not in infrastructure, no way. 
1. Use the same tactics used by all smaller forces, concentrate efforts into small niches the larger entity will overlook, move faster, make it really really good, wait for large organizations without the original founder to stumble and consume themselves in bureaucracy.
   1. Midjourney is still the best ai image generator, despite the stiff competition from ai labs. Eleven labs makes the best ai voice. But Cursor and Perplexity? They are directly competing with the large ai labs, ai programming and ai search are not small overlooked niches. Frankly, neither will be image and speech, Midjourney and Eleven labs have tough competition ahead. Hell, even OpenAi has a tough competition ahead. Do not compete directly against the big boys, guerilla warfare, not standing armies. 
2. If a physical product, must target the higher end market due to low quantity and low production expenses. If a digital product, must target as wide of an audience as possible for scale. 
3. Attack from a different angle, in consumer markets you can almost never be a copy cat of what someone else does, you have to come at it from a unique angle. 
4. Ai is a great equalizer, like a firearm, eventually a dumb person can be as smart, if not smarter than a genius not using Ai. If I had ChatGPT 5.2 straight in my brain, or even wear it in glasses, I will go to the top schools, have the top jobs, and just win in life. So use ai in all possible ways, use it whenever possible, it is the greatest equalizing force humanity has ever made, maybe even surpassing the firearm. 
5. The full vision of being a true player in the universe is unlikely to happen within one 80 year lifetime, if ASI is to be born in orbit, then maybe we can all live a lot longer. If that is the case, then it is imperative to behave and plan for 100s of years. First and foremost, legal ownership, once given out, hardly comes back. Giving away ownership for money is like taking away hp for more dps spells, short term gain for long term loss. I’d rather be like Dyson, owning 100% of my company in perpetuity. But doing things how Dyson did it is super low probability, I think he’s one of the only ones to do it at that large a scale.
So simple right, just find some niche, do it for a long time get cashflow, and eventually make your way to owning the robots that can do real work in the world. If you can just do that, have robots that can do your chores around the house, or fleets of robots that can fight or build something, that is all that matters. Then you can do anything, as long as you have the mass, energy, compute, and scale of course. I want to play real life Factorio, I want to turn life into a rts game where I can just go to a planet, turn it into a giant factory and colonize it to make anything and do anything I want, then go planet to planet from galaxy to galaxy and build a massive empire in this universe, is that too much to ask? Maybe we can answer this question by going back, if I was born at the dawn of the industrial revolution, the beginning of the personal computer and the internet, and assume what I assume now, that life will be long and the goals are the same, what would I do? If I was 22 when the Boulton and Wat engine was made in 1776, well first of all I have to be in the right country. If I was not born in England that would really really suck, so be born in the right place. It would be pretty much impossible to do things on my own without the financial backing of an elite, so I would have to work at some factory somewhere as a skilled laborer and learn how things work. Do that for several years, gain skills, get connections, etc. Then when opportunity comes, like something new comes about, like the invention of smaller steam engines, trains, steam ships, electricity, cars, steel, oil. At the end of the day it’s rarely the inventor that builds the large entity. The entity is the source of mass and energy and those large entities are whoever does that thing the best at the most scale. It’s always the one who created the entity that does that thing the best and at scale, Rockefeller/oil refining, Carnegie and steel, Ford and car production. Unfortunately, it seems like I may be in England when all the action is happening in China. Regardless, the problem is that they were all extremely high IQ, they had a very high ceiling, unfortunately I don’t, but there is the great equalizer, Ai. So I do hope that can change the calculus. 
        The good thing I got going is that I live in an era of problems. The government sucks, the education system sucks, healthcare sucks, a lot of people or poor and in desperate economic conditions, people are dissatisfied with society, the culture sucks, people don’t know what to believe in, the elites are degenerate and incompetent, massive crime problems, mass anti-social behavior, people are lonely, there’s a housing shortage, real estate is too expensive, the food and materials are poisonous. It’s all synonymous with a generational opportunity for disruption. You don’t really need to ponder what to do, there are already so many problems to solve. Solve these problems one at a time for people, and I’m sure I’ll get the mass and energy needed to eventually become independent of Earth, to have an unconstrained physics based entity. The bar is already so low. You know its all pretty obvious actually, create an entity that solves the serious problems in society, people respect and like the entity, then introduce new belief systems and new culture based on the prime directive and civilizational outputs. The combined resources of money and social influence from solving society’s problems should be enough to spearhead this idea  of a unconstrained physics based entity. Having robots and ai go from mining the resources to end product/services. Vertically integrate as much as possible, create a society/civilization on the Moon or Mars. Macro up better than everyone else, expand across the solar system. Become a player with my own entity. It’s actually so simple, just use ai and robotics to solve society’s problems. Four birds with one stone, create an entity with access to mass and energy, improve on the underlying technology needed for a physics based entity,  shape the culture and belief systems of this new age of history, and attracting the best people. Having a daring mission with great impact, financial rewards, and with a little cultural propaganda, will attract the best people to your entity.
        So what are some of the real material problems of society, material because were not counting social/cultural/worldview issues, that can be solved with this coming paradigm with orbital data centers and mass networked ai/robotics. Also, I think this era of just creating a trendy/interesting little product to sell to people is over, times are getting tough and you  do  need to start providing real value to people, you actually have to make people’s lives better. First problem, economic problem. People don’t have money, the biggest costs for people are housing costs, healthcare costs, education costs, debt, poisonous food/materials, childcare/elderly care, and the retirement crisis (older people can’t retire). If you can dramatically reduce these costs for people, it will feed into this 4 spoked flywheel. I would include taxes as one of the largest costs for people, but that is probably something I can’t change for now. On the other hand what are some of the biggest costs for large companies? What are the biggest costs for civilizations? There are literally so many problems that if you help solve problems, you will get your 4 spoked flywheel. So where to start? Probably don’t do something that requires government contracts, the customer must be everyday consumers or businesses. It can’t be something that is super regulated, like law or medicine. It has to be something that can work decently well at small quantities and at higher prices. 
I think the best place to start is just good ol’ fashioned childcare/elderly care. As the technology gets better it should be able to do housechore work. I’m basically describing general humanoid robotics, but I think at first these things are not going to be good enough to work at the home and be useful? Not enough data. Ok then how would these ai/robotics be helpful at childcare/elderly care? You’re basically straight competing with Tesla and Unitree, shit. But the pros are: They have the most money, a really neglected part of the economy, a lot of these facilities and businesses are probably ran like shit, they don’t have to be super performing like construction or the military, it’s an area where the technology can get better, you’ll get better at robot/ai likability, which is a huge huge huge part of the future battle of robotics, getting an emotional connection with a robot/ai is probably the biggest moat, and probably no one has this philosophy of building a robotic shell to be controlled by a larger ai. These elderly care prices are literally +$6,000 per month, it’s actually insane and a huge cost for society. This problem must be solved. Same thing with childcare, young families pay exorbitant amounts of money on day care, childcare, after school facilities and activities, and most of them aren’t really that good. I think it’s time solve some of these problems for society. Also not only does this solve a problem for individuals and families but also for society, elderly care is super expensive and most of it is paid by medicaid or something. Also, the problems my parents face, most people face, most young people deal with, and what society has to face is the retirement crisis. People literally won’t be able to retire. So where do they go? Who’s going to take care of them? I think this is a problem that is worth solving and the solution can easily propagate to multiple different problems. So first elderly care, childcare, take care of enough elderly people, take care of people who can’t retire. Create retirement communities, really good ones, and cheap too. That means building communities, building cities, build facilities, etc. Then there is the pathway to build structures and maintain buildings. Once you get that down you can try building and doing a bunch of other things, any kind of assisted living. The elderly, disabled, etc. Then maybe you can build mass housing with robots. This is the ultimate use case and pathway for a physics based entity, the ability for ai and robots to build things on their own. It’s actually a really good angle, elderly care/child care for cashflow, then eventually build out your own facilities which is the real technological breakthrough you need. Oh and guess what, guess what group of people hate change, old people. So once you get a customer, unless you really screw up or cost too much, they’re not going to want change. 
So how to win the elderly care industry and solve the retirement and elderly care crisis in our society. Elderly care first, child care last. Elderly people don’t need as much attentive attention and interaction and move much faster than elders. Reading through elderly care Reddit posts is pretty sickening. It costs families about at least $7000 each to put their parents in a nursing home. Even more for a memory facility. Even non medical home care is about $25 - $35 an hour, which is basically an entire lower end income. Most the businesses doing this are shady, extort for payments, use shitty agencies, don’t take care of their patients well, forget their meds, aren’t attentive to their needs, etc. This must be solved, it’s a massive black hole in our economy, purely to no benefit. Productive middle aged people need to pool resources for their young, not spending thousands of dollars per month per parent in nursing homes. Totally disgusting on a civilizational level, the cost of these things must be reduced dramatically with ai and robotics. These businesses shouldn’t be solvent, a lot of people have bad experiences at the lower end of things. Of course the expensive nice ones are good, but the majority of people are left with lower end options that are probably sus. And even that is $1000s per month. The pricing is pretty egregious, and I hear that even if you pay $6000 a month for assisted living, there might not even be a person taking care of your mom/data and so people would pay extra money for a caregiver. So essentially in some places it’s just $6000 for just a bed AND you have to pay extra for a body to take care of your parents. It’s just actually egregious, it’s actually disgusting. Quotes for 24/7 skilled medical home care was quoted at $300,000 per month, what the hell. So if you parents have a medical problem, which is why they would do assisted living or a nursing home in the first place, people choose assisted living because it’s much much cheaper than 24/7 at home medical care. Just looking at these reddit posts disgusts me, how is it this much that’s insane. So this is obviously a huge market, and will probably be one of the first things taken over by general robotics. The question is why wouldn’t Tesla, Figure Ai, 1X just do this business themselves. It’s so much money on the table, they can totally just do it themselves. They would be able to scale up so much better, have better financing to outprice the competition until they all fail. I would always have to buy the robot first, then add my own costs. Unless of course, the Chinese bots are just so much unbelievably cheaper, I plug in my ai into them, and they are the caregivers. 


This will be important:
  

Directly competing with established robotics companies, especially the Chinese ones, Tesla, and FigureAi if they make it will be almost impossible, forget it. The only ones that will work are the ones who adopt the remote control model, not edge ai. I feel like FigureAi is going to make the mistake of making their robots totally locally, Elon has a orbital data center to sell and he’s a genius so he knows that’s the model that will work as well. Elon does have to compete with the Chinese though, and Elon will have the advantage of orbital data center to his advantage. Really curious how he will approach the application layer. His personality is to do winner take all, so look at self driving, or starlink. There is 100% as soon at Optimus is capable, he will have it to elderly care. Hmm, hard to compete with that, almost impossible actually. Like right now there is practically no successful ChatGPT wrapper or generic Ai wrapper. Sure some kids managed to make CalAi or RizzGPT but nothing really successful. You have to make your own thing built ontop of X technology that specializes in that thing. ElevenLabs did their own thing with voices, Midjourney with images, characterAi trained their own personas, etc. So it’s totally possible to specialize in elderly care with robots/ai if you do some extra stuff to make it really really good. 


Also, there’s no such thing as I’m naturally passionate about this thing, I just have this generic reward function. You don’t innately love electronics, or rockets, or finance, you just like winning and getting a hit from your reward function. So if you get that hit from electronics, or rockets, or drones then you rationalize it, with the help of social conditioning, that you are innately passionate about this thing. 


In the gilded age the things they were doing were actually pretty simple. Oil, refining oil, railroads, coal, rubber, these are pretty simple things so the business class of people can just find a good engineer and make his company. But the things today are a lot more sophisticated, although ai is evening that playing field. Now, all the tech founders are all really good engineers who also figured out how to run a company. You have to actually be technically talented to make chips, make ai, make robots, etc. 


Being the first mover and the largest entity is so important. You can scale faster, take more of the market, and drop prices and squeeze your competitors. Then you get big enough and just buy them out. 


Power structures are important. Rockefeller worked with Vanderbilt early on and got cheap rates and that propelled his career. Carnegie became the right hand man of Scott, who owned the largest railroad network after Vanderbilt. The players interact with each other. 


The company closest to the end consumer is the most powerful one. The coal companies were dependent on the railroad companies so the coal cut undercut each other and depended on elite connections for deals. The railroad companies became dependent on the oil companies (basically Rockefeller) and undercut each other to ship oil, Rockefeller wasn’t dependent on any large corporate entity, his end customer was the direct consumer. He had all the cards, bring closest to the end consumer is the top of the food chain in a market based economy. 


I can see an edge, an angle to shape public opinion. You are of modernity. You did well on some tests and that gave you elite status and the right to rule, but at the end of the day you’re just an incompetent bureaucrat. And 10000s of not 100000s of bureaucrats like you are why society went to shit. The big thing is class war, against the establishment. The bureaucrats and university test taking elites are the enemy. The bureaucracy selected its elites through test taking skills, and then scratch their heads why society continues to go to shit. Obviously there are genuinely talented people so of course they’re good at tests, but the critique are for people who have no other skills besides test taking. They can’t make something new, they can’t invent, they can’t discover, they can only take tests and do things within the confines of man-made bureaucracy. The other huge problem, after the bureaucratic elites, are the parasitic elites. Real estate investment, insurance, buying and selling debt. These people have done just as much damage. Bureaucratic elites and parasitic elites. The financiers that sold out their country and offshored industry, used money to make money, only saw money not a greater purpose of civilization. Literally screwed over everyone else younger than them from owning assets, money became more important than labor. Breeders of poverty.


Geopolitical:
Aside from the technological and productive changes, the other most important thing will be some catastrophic end to our current era of history, the post-world wars pax Americana liberal modernity. The wealth disparity and elite overcompetition levels are boiling hot not just in this country, but across the world, and soon probably tip over the breaking point. Every single pillar of civilization has been eroded, the culture, the institutions, the belief systems, everything. The Dollar may not survive the 21st century, China might actually be the most powerful country right now. Epstein files, political turmoil, the government is losing its legitimacy, religious zealots rising. Obviously the background of this intense technological change will be the rise of China, decline of the United States. However, the big factor is technological change. Because if ai and robotics becomes as good as we think they are, and humans have not been enhanced yet, then a large population suddenly becomes a great weakness. If 1 extra human is a net negative in terms of scientific and productive output, because they can’t compete with ai and robotics, they essentially turn into cattle, or pets that society has to take care of. Much easier to take care of 340 million cattle than 1.4 billion. Eventually the paradigm will shift, and humanity will break through a new local optimum. The fall of the market based, consumption economy to a physics based economy. You don’t care so much about money, profits, or market demands. If you have the mass, the energy, and build power, you can just do things. Make your own empire in space, on the moon, on mars, etc. Of course, the ones who will have the ability to even have a physics based empires, will be the winners of the market based economy. Eventually if base level humans don’t have any spending power because they don’t have jobs, then large entities need to get their mass and energy from physics itself instead of money and markets, cut out the middle man. Consumer markets, although a great local optimum, is really just a middle man to get labor and resources and use them to do things. A financial depression cuts down your oil sales so you stop pumping oil, your ai lab runs out of funding because the VC pulled out so you have to shut down, this market money based economy, is really just a middle man and once we have ai/robotics at sufficient scale, we can cut out the middle man. On the other side, if humans can be enhanced, if we can improve as much as ai/robotics or use them so well we approach transhumanism, then that is a paradigm I can’t really imagine, yet. Because all the rules can be rewritten, so much of my understanding of the world comes from human nature, and if human nature changes, well, then how can I predict the future with any certainty. 


This is probably why I want to be a “player” and have unconstrained agency in this universe. No government, no rules, just living my life as a real life rts game. I am indeed a product of the society and era of history I was born in, some of the current ways have been embedded into my subconscious, but a lot of my identity now is a rejection of the society and era of history I live in. I don’t believe in government, I don’t believe in society, I don’t believe in people, because I have never known a time when any of these things worked. I have only ever witnessed man made systems and institutions fail around me and as I look into history, see that they all eventually fail. This concept of human civilization, which we have invented and are biologically biased to, has a 100% failure rate. But this does not mean I don’t believe in anything, in fact, I am quite convinced of this idea of a physics based entity, unconstrained agency in this universe, only being governed by physics, not by nations, not by bureaucracy or laws, not by culture, religion, or belief systems made by other men. I only live according to the laws of physics. I will achieve unconstrained agency.


My tweet today that 99.99% of people today won’t understand:
A market based, consumer economy has been a useful local optimum since the dawn of civilization. But it's just a middle man we may be able to cut out over the next few centuries. Once we have physics based entities and unconstrained agency, there is no going back, and that'll be the new local optimum to carry humanity forward until it's no longer useful.


12/5/25
You can blame most of society’s problems on the incompetent and greedy elites and the bureaucrats. The definition of a bureaucrat is someone who creates artificial systems and institutions that are a net negative to everyone but to themselves. When you zoom out, so so much of our world is fake, an insidious lie, and artificial. The academics, which are bureaucrats who work in academia, are not scientists, they are not physicists, mathematicians, biologists, they are useless academics who suck up money to fund useless research that barely deviates from the consensus. Academics == bureaucrats. Anyways, the amount of damage these people have done to us can not be understated. They tried to destroy our civilization, our culture, and anyone who doesn’t fit into their artificial constructs. They have created a system where the only way you can get a meaningful job is by being stamped for approval by their institutions which they select for with academic rituals. The university system, college application, and college degrees are our era of history’s priest class, religious ceremonies, and rain dances and rain dance masks. Have you realized that they’ve taken up the world lazy to  describe someone who doesn’t comply to their false system? If someone doesn’t want to sit down all day and do homework or study for tests, to do  their academic rituals well, they’re considered lazy. This is a psyop. I love working hard I can’t stop working hard on things I like to do and I love learning about everything, but I hate doing homework and I hate studying for tests just to please the priests and bureaucrats, so for most of my life I considered myself lazy. I’m not lazy I just didn’t want to do your bullshit. It’s perfectly clear I work very hard on things I like doing. And that’s just how people work. This is insane. It’s like calling a slave who doesn’t want to work hard in the fields lazy. No I just don’t want to work for you doing bullshit. Just the levels of psyop the bureaucrats have inflicted upon this civilization. 18-22 instead of getting 4 years of experience they say come here, go through our process, fight over each other for the opportunity to be selected to be taught. Then you can get work experience. They became middle men. Let us pick who gets to eat and how much. Let’s create a society of test takers, whoever does best on tests get to be the elite. So artificial so fake. I still can’t believe that lazy thing, my entire life I’ve heard, if you don’t work hard in school or college it’s because you’re just lazy, what an insane psyop. Forced naturally hard working people to do things they despise and don’t want to do, then calling them lazy when they don’t want to do it. Why are the slaves not working hard? why do I have so many lazy prisoners in my gulag?  Eventually society will change and destroy this test taking, academic bureaucracy culture we have. Too many people are noticing the levels of bullshit the levels of artificial constructs they’ve built to benefit just themselves. Almost every job can be done by high schoolers after 4 years of on the job training, school not necessary, but the current employers have only known life in a cage so they think you’re only good if you’ve been stamped for approval. They can’t use their eyes and ears, only go by the mark of the bureaucracy. You’re too stupid and uncredited to interpret the universe’s will, only we can use the scientific method correctly. If it didn’t come from academia it can’t be trusted. Such arrogance. The insidious structures and lies they’ve built up, that a scientist is inseparable from academia, that capability can only be measured by academia and its rituals. I hate it. I hate them all, all the lives they’ve ruined. The parasitic bureaucrats and the academic priests will all fall in the 21st century, I swear it. He’s smart because he does well on our tests. He’s hardworking because he spends a lot of time doing homework and studying for tests. Once you’ve broken out of this construct you realize how utterly ridiculous and evil this is. All the kids who were denied their potential, all the greatness constrained, all the resent and meaningless from selling your soul to do meaningless tasks. Do these people really think they can screw over all of humanity and face no consequences? I will make sure their false constructs burn in front of them and the world will snap out of this psyop. The truth will come out and the world will be in awe how we ever  let these parasites convince us of such absurdities.


12/1/25
Asset culture needs to die. Modern human civilixation has fostered culture where people expect there to be ways to sit on your ass and make money. It’s embedded within our culture that you can buy stocks real estate companies whatever and sit on your ass and make money. Civilizational leeching. Money should come from labor not ownership and be highly correlated to if you have done something useful for society. 


11/1/25
Re-reading the New Testament with a secular view is quite fun to do. It’s a carefully constructed story. Back story before Jesus is born, the anticipation of a great hero that will save the world, a power entity supporting and planning for the hero to do great things. The validation of other people recognizing the strength and promise of the great hero (3 wise men, the fear of king Herod). The villain. The victimization and mistreatment of the great hero so you feel for him (Herod kills all the young boys and the family flees to Egypt). Odd characters in the fringes of society for seeing the arrival of the great hero (John the Baptist). It just shows how much modern story telling is derived from story telling techniques of the Bible. The introduction of the end point (Jesus saves the world). Introduction of the villain. (Herod and Pharisees, brood of vipers I like that one). The difficulties and trials of the hero (fleeing death and his temptations).


By the way, I actually do suspect Jesus did think he was the son of god. I’m curious if king herods actions and 3 wisemen and John the Baptist actually did happen. Imagine being Jesus, all of these things happening with the stars, and a king trying to kill you, giving evidence you are a super human being. But as you live life realize you don’t have any real powers. So you probably crash out and go through a period of dissatisfaction and confusion. That’s probably what the Tempation of Jesus part is all about. He crashes out and goes away, he’s hungry doesn’t eat, and subconsciously tells himself even though I’m super human and a deity, i can’t turn these rocks into food to eat, oh so I’ll just say to myself, man doesn’t live on bread alone but kn every word that comes from the mouth of god, or whatever that means. He protects his self concept saying I am a deity I can turn these rocks into food, but I won’t because it’s immoral or something.  Like a lot of deluded and mentally ill people I know, they will literally make up random stuff to protect their self concept. Then Jesus gets suicidal New Testament says the devil tempts him telling him to jump off a high point. Then he subconsciously protects himself and then justifies it for his self concept.  Hes literally telling himself if I jump, god will send angels to pick me up, but I won’t do that because that’s testing god. So hes saying I totally can jump and god will totally save me because im a deity, but i choose to not do that out of morality. Then he goes to a mountain be sees civilization and thinks to himself, man I’m talented I can rule over these people because I’m a deity, obviously he can’t be king or rule, so he protects his self concept saying I totally can do that because I’m a deity, but I choose to not do that because that’s worshiping the devil. So these behaviors remind me of people I know really well, I totally can work hard and go to a good school, get good grades, get a good job and be successful but I won’t because I’m just too lazy or I don’t care about that. They’re protecting their self concept from realizing even if they did try they’ll fail. 


Anyways, not sure what the real account of Jesus’s life is, but obviously the reason why Christianity worked was because there was some underlying condition in the world that made it enticing. All new ideology stems from discontent or a need. Marxism was founded out of the cruel industrial working conditions and discontent with extreme Capitalism. Democracy and the constitution was founded out of the discontent of authoritarian king George. Wokeness was founded from the discontent of the expectations of being responsible and having standards and the desire for degeneracy and decadence in a post ww2 abundant world. New ideologies stem from the discontent of the old one. So I wonder what was going on in society at the time for Jesus’s message to be heard. Also, I wonder what it was in Jesus to want to dedicate his life to this. If I had to guess, he was like any other successful CEO or person, intelligent, ambitious, dissatisfied with his current position in life, have a chip on their shoulder and have something to prove, a belief in himself, etc. on the culture side people probably were discontent with the belief systems of the Old Testament as they were ruled by Rome so they were like, where is our god. And the forces of bureaucracy and elite overcompetion probably corrupted the religious and political leaders as John the Baptist and Jesus did not like the establishment religious organization, Pharisees and such. 
. 
10/28/25
I have a pretty firm belief that humanity’s music truly peaked with Mozart in the late 1700s. The following romanticism was good, but not as good. Then came industrialization, which was great, but gave us a subconscious bias towards rhythmic and mechanical sounds, like trains, factories, and typewriters. Also music wasn’t so aristocratic or folk anymore, it became mass consumer. So then came out the ragtime then eventually jazz from the United States. After the horrors of ww1, Europe saw the beginning of it’s decline on every level, which makes it fitting that Jazz from the Unites States would explode. Then that turned into Swing in the 1940s, which exploded. I believe that is when music started having some kind of background steady continuous rhythm, which eventually became the bedrock of modern music today. That is when music went from and open & free artform to a mechanistic, defined state tied to a beat. I think this is tragic. The reason why we like guitar solos so much was because it was free from any beat and was all melody, that’s what music used to be, just sheer melody which forced musicians to fill the time and space with something else besides relying on the mundane drum beat to fill the void. I truly think music was better when it was an open canvas. I think this beat thing is truly for the worse and dumbed down the quality of music. Country, rock, pop, whatever, are all part of the same family of beat-based music. Look, I like Yoasobi, Billie Eilish, and Golden, and really have a good entertaining time, but I must admit that pre-beat music is truly timeless. People put classical and romantic music on today’s movies and shows, in cartoons in Tom and Jerry or in space sci fi, and it can do that because that music was made on a blank canvas and can so it it free to be used anywhere. Whereas with beat-driven music, it is fundamentally attached to the pre-defined nature of the beat, which is associated with the trendy beat of that decade. We need music to get off beats, become purely melodic, and probably create new instruments too. Adding new instruments will totally change the way music sounds. Don’t even get me started on filthy edm or house music, I don’t even know what that is, if people from the past saw a edm concert today they’d think it’s demonic and people in the future will think of them as degenerate drug dens. I want the return of aristocratic and high music that will enlighten the human soul for as long as we remain human. Do we really have to go through 200 years of a golden age in order for good music to start popping out from an enlightened civilization?


You know what baroque, classical, romantic was? It was atmospheric, expanded and contracted, emotional, it was breathing. But when the drum grid became the skeleton of all music, music became a clock, organized, melody was used as decoration instead of structure, optimized for dopamine hits instead of touching my soul. It’s a reflection of the rhythm of our daily modern lives: uniform, relentless, synchronized, stifled, and pacified.


10/27/25
The foundational beliefs must be: 
Purpose: The hallmark of life is purpose, and the purpose is to grow and improve.
Hope, more mass & energy for me: Techno-industrial optimism. Growth and improvement.
Emotional support: Accepting yourself, turning away demonic forces, Christianity.
Pro-Civiliation: Again, techno-industrial optimism. Contributing to civilization, being a net positive. Healthy amount of love for your civilization and your personal agency. Feeling a sense of duty to civilization, the intimate relationship between ethnic and culture cohesion, adherence to truth, iterative method, that people are born monkeys and must be taught to be civilized, the difference between a child and adult is that children do not have responsibilities, thus do not hold themselves accountable to standards. Adults have responsibilities to themselves, to their spouse, to their children, to their society/culture/civilization and must hold themselves accountable to physical, psychological, and behavioral standards that allows them to perform their responsibilities well. Vehemently anti-bureaucracy. 


TLDR: Just get people to truly believe in growth and improvement by answering: “I want to believe in this thing that will help me get rich, gives me purpose, will do good for the world, and will be glorious”. Everything else comes downstream from that tenant. You begin asking, how can I contribute to growth and improvement, what are the best ways to get growth and improvement, if I help grow and improve do I get a lot out of it. Then you get everything good, pro-civilizatinoal beliefs, responsibility and standards, the adherence to truth, anti bureaucracy. 


10/26/25
Just watched Kpop Demon Hunters, great movie, deeper than it looks. Great, great timing too. I needed it for my soul.


The same psychological mechanisms that makes us believe in money, in gods and religion, in belief systems, in kings, in belief structures, whatever that slot in our brain is,  comes with a critical flaw. Somewhere in the web of that psychology is a critical back door flaw, where you can also believe in dispair, doubt, fear, and evil as fervently as people love their emperor or god. When you are at a low point, you can believe in dispair, hopelessness, and dispair, you can feel it and once those enter that slot in your brain, it affects everything you do. It infects your soul, everything that you do or everything you hear/see gets affected. You hate your life, you hate society, you hate people, everything is negative and you start spewing and spreading toxicity, first in the tinniest of ways, but inevitable becomes more and more severe. 


Societies and people need psychological protection or a counter force to these negative psychological emotions that can damage your life, and if enough people in society feel the same way, will decimate society. Especially now when most people are indeed poor, haven't lived up to their own expectations, have to come to terms with the reality of their own mediocrity, that they aren't special, that others are better than you, that others have done more and have more. It just eats at your soul. To prevent yourself from succumbing to these negative mental states and hopelessness, you have to believe in accepting yourself, to hope for something better,
to feel that you are loved, to be greatful, etc. This is essentially what religion tries to do, gives people the psychological tools to protect their own souls and give hope, to give a pleasant perspective, even when things are truly shit in the real world.


 
Psychological constructs are very much real and very much affects society. Go watch kpop demon hunters, that spiritual warfare between angels and demons is quite real. Seeing someone else with more money, seeing someone else in a relationship, seeing how insignificant you are, and how much better other people are, worried how you'll be perceived, if you have been wronged in life, etc etc
all of these things are "demons breaching into your world" and the angels, through music, media, presence, positivity, gives your world protection from these demons. It's literally real, how much shittier would our world be if you had no heroes or role models to look up to, if youre only bombarded with negativity and toxicity every single day as most people are. This psychological warfare is real, just look at the news, so many demons have swarmed in and are "taking your soul", and now
thoughts that are not even yours are infiltrating your mind so that you just believe what someone else wants you to believe. Some are quite real, a lot of things are very much real, but a lot of it is pure demonic propaganda. The old wise men of the past were very aware of these things and anthromorphized these psychological concepts, if people hated society and wanted to burn everything down or if they were full of hate and rage, telling people this is the devil’s work, that is demonic temptation, turns these emotions into objects, by doing that we have a better psychological mechanism to combat these feelings in our heads. Make no mistakes, these psychological distresses we call demons have a very real affect on society. Being angry, spiteful, whatever x 100s of millions of people will have a very real affect on society. It’s just certain electric patterns and chemicals, but it very much affects the social cohesion, social tensions, and just general social health in your society. The collective cultural and psychological state of your society matters a lot. For example, Europe developed a cuck mindset now theyre doing cuck things like blowing up nuclear reactors and importing millions of 3rd world immigrants, diluting their people, culture, safety, and cohesion.


Society needs "demon slayers" to defeat the demonic spiritual assault on society. That slot in people's brains need to be filled with pro-civilizational beliefs and pro-self-concept.
That almost certainly comes, like it always has for all of human history, in the form of fictional stories and music to give life society's spirit and protect it from demonic incursions, or from real life figures and heroes we put on a pedestal. Now more than ever, people need inspiring media, people need heroes, something that gives hope, radiates positivity, makes people believe in themselves, believe in others, believe in what their civilization stands for. God, Kpop Demon Hunters is actually so good. Do not succumb to the demonic whispers. There are bad parts about you that you were born with, things deep within in you that is just embedded into the fabric of who you are. It’s true you can’t hide it, you just can’t, it’s stuck too deep within our brains somewhere. The best you can do is embrace it and move on. 


Other key points are the concepts of perception, ideological warfare, and the filters how we view the world. People run around ready to believe in things, we are believing machines, for whatever reason we have been evolutionarily bred to constantly believe in things and revolve our identities to that belief, and many of our actions and thoughts stem from these beliefs, and 99% of the time, you did not come up with these beliefs on your own, these are not your own thoughts, someone else brought these beliefs into your brain through culture, social norms, communities, ideologies, religion, morals, etc etc. People can truly be convinced of anything, so shield people with good beliefs to protect them from demonic soul-stealing forces.


It’s just so strange how cognitive shifts happen, paradigm shifts but in our perceptions, ideas, and notions of the good/bad high value/low value of things. It’s literally like curtain unveiling, or the ripping of the veil, or a magical sweeping force that changes everything it touches. There is something that just happened the last 10 years when east asian culture became cool. It’s just so strange how it happened unspoken, no public declaration, 1 by 1 people just started to realize it by themselves. Same thing with US’s and the West’s positions in the world, just so much has changed in perception the past 10 years, it is insane. Export media for 10 years and millions of people see certain countries with completely skewed psychological filters, its insane how a switch can just flip in people. Perception is truly such a powerful force. God propaganda is powerful. It truly is the most powerful weapon on Earth, it might not even be close. Perception can bring entire civilizations to commit cultural suicide, to get entire people to genocide others, can get people to want war or peace, convince people who the allies or enemies are, who the heroes and traitors are. People can be convinced they live in a golden age or the dark age, or if we’re back, or if it’s so over. These subconscious perceptions we place on certain things are very very important. Maybe not that obvious or impactful on an individual level, but be are social creatures that were evolutionarily bred to live together. Times these perceptions with hundreds of millions of people and these perceptions become very, very real. 


Anyways, Kpop Demon Hunter, a surprisingly deep movie if you take the spiritual warfare between the demons and demon slayers and apply them to what is happening to the real world right now between the right and left, the west and the world, between hope and despair, etc. The core theme of this movie is about the reality of society’s unseen spiritual warfare.




10/22/25
        The truth is it’s actually not that complicated, people try to make all of these complicated ideological or political doctrines and deep philosophical belief systems when 99% of people don’t care about the little details, or if it even makes coherent sense, they just care if it presses their limbic systems buttons. Does this belief structure and culture increase my access to food, housing, safety, etc? If yes, I like it and like other people on the same team, if no then I am against it and the other team is my enemy. It’s really that simple. Why did Christianity work, because it says a powerful God loves and cares for you, that even though you fail there is forgiveness,  even when things are shit it’s part of God’s plan for something greater, and if you don’t have shit and you’re poor and suffering it’s okay because if you’re a good Christian you’ll be in heaven having a good time forever. It is the ultimately crafted belief system to help people get through hard times. It presses the love, compassion, anger, resentment, and envy buttons, which is really beneficial for a species evolutionarily bred for social/group communities. Why does Communism work, because it provides food, housing, safety to you even if you didn’t earn it. So I get food, housing, “safety”, and stuff with little work, of course people love that. Every biological organism on Earth right now is trying to get the most mass & energy with the least amount of work. Why do you think Western civilization gladly deindustrialized, because their spoiled children wanted stuff with as little real work as possible so they went from farmers, miners, engineers, factory workers to consultants, government administrators, money counters, financial speculators, lawyers, etc. That same dynamic happened thousands of years ago, when we first went from hunter gatherers to settled agrarian people, as soon as there was a caloric surplus people wanted to get away with doing easier work. The smarter ones became the priest class, the ruling class, government administrators, etc. 


Ultimately the ideology that will win is whatever gets people out of debt/poverty/stuck in their socio economic place. Whatever gets people access to mass/energy the most will win. The abundance ideology, the hopeful future. Techno-industrial optimism. The allure of building things and increasing prosperity, that will win. On top of that, needs to press limbic systems buttons so love, compassion, something that gives a cultural identity, something where you can look at another person and know that despite your differences we are in the same team and you want what I want, a better stronger society. People will want to believe in something that gives them love, compassion, comfort, and guidance, promises wealth and a better future. Their problems and feelings understood and heard and acknowledged. 


You know I’m  literally seeing civilizational collapse before my very eyes due to wealth disparity, elite overproduction, and an awful set of ideologies and belief systems and nihilism. People were fed a bunch of shit and haven’t seen society’s stories and folktale turn true. The American Dream, diversity is strength, American exceptionalism. Someone needs to turn that all around, someone needs to fight against the social and cultural collapse of civilization.


Not only does it have to promise abundance and wealth, but also a sense of purpose what it s all about. Techno - industrial optimism. 


If you organize people and resources into system and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. Meaning, having an iterative society towards the prime objective, so that we may eventually free ourselves of our evolutionary biology and build civilizations across the stars. (Part of doing this will be digitizing the world and doing life like a game)


We’re not a serious species, a serious species would be working towards a large specified goal right now. Like transforming an entire 50km^2 area of land into power plants or a giant factory, or compute cluster, or more chips, or more factories for anything. A serious species would be looking at every spec of flat land on the planet, counting evey pound of minerals and every watt of power and transportation capabilities and be making something. Yes, currently we are constrained by a market based economy where we’ve organized ourselves into a way where the only way to produce more and expand is by selling it to other people or institutions who will buy it to satisfy their wants/needs or so that they can use it to make money themselves. In this currency/market based economy, it works very well, Capitalism works very well and I suspect will undergo some kind of change to reach this new local optimum. We need to breach a new local optimum where we can justify expanding and getting more without requiring currency or market demand. I think I’ve talked about this before but the dawn of ai/robots makes a physics-based economy possible. 
The fundamental requirement is the vast majority of the labor and intelligence is done by ai/robots, not humans. Humans require money, money is essentially stored human will. If another species came and interacted with us they’ll see that we’re a social species that adheres to authority, this mechanic of “something is valuable because other people think it’s valuable, so now it’s a store of wealth” would be a pretty defining feature of our species, although it might not be unique to us. Anyways, yes so robots and ai doing most of the work means these things fundamentally do not need money. They have no innate desires or wishes and don’t care if they die or not, they don’t care about reproducing, they don’t harbor any of the innate evolutionary biological impulses we do. So they don’t need to be paid for their work, they don’t need to own anything, they don’t care how long they work or if it’s to the detriment to themselves. So they don’t need money, they’ll just do as long as they have power. Under these premise, it becomes possible (human intelligence/labor and so currency will be needed to get the thing started of course) to build and run a mine, refinery, transportation network, factories, and the power plants to power it all with robots/ai. Once you have that skeleton, from literal minerals to finished product, then life becomes a video game. You are no longer constrained by human nature, by other people, by money. If you want to build another factory and double the output of space satellites for the heck of it, as long as you have the literal metals, energy, and build power to do so, you can. No need to stitch together important specie-level work with the demands of the market place. I mean that is actually how you’ll colonize the first few planets. There is no profit, there is no money, it’s not cheaper than just getting it from Earth (asteroid mining may be an exception). The only way to do it is reorganizing our systems and institutions to optimzie the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. And if that means eventually forgoing a market/currency based economy to a physics based economy, than so be it. Things will be made for the sake of it being made, not for a market demand. If humanity wants to build enormous rockets to explore space, no longer does it depend on tax dollars of the government or a private company to has to do a bunch of extra shit to make money to buy stuff so it can do important stuff. Just fire up the factory, have the compute cluster come up with better designs, have the robotic factory make it, and just launch it if you have the literal atoms and energy and build power to do so. Lets 1000x the number of compute on the planet right now. Unfortunately there is not enough market demand for this yet, if TSMC or Nividia makes more chips than we know what to do with or can make use of, then those prices go down, theres a glut, they lose money, so they want to somewhat contrict the supply to remain profitable. From a physics standpoint that is incredibly silly. If there is enough physical atoms, energy, and build power to build 1000x compute for your planet, why not? If I’m playing a RTS game and all the resources and energy and build power is there I would do it, because it will be useful in the future, the only constraints are the hard laws of physics. The actual constraints are: are there enough atoms, is it processable, how long will it take, do we have enough energy, what will it take to build out the infrastructure and factories to make more of X at scale. Counting the literal atoms, energy, and build power. But in our market/currency based economy its bullshit humans made up like: Do we have the balance sheet to take on more debt, investments, to fund expansion, is the stock high enough to comfortably take on risk, is there a market for this product, do we have the permits from the government, I need to meet with this important person to make this deal, make sure the contracts are in our favor and the payout structure blah blah blah all that bullshit is not necessary to make the thing. 
Just imagine a completely self-sufficient super intelligent ai with a vast army of robots, mines to all the various elements, and refineries for all of those minerals, huge factories for all the basic components, the huge power plants, the transportation network, the ports, the roads, the trucks, the supply chain network for all the parts for all the stuff used in the mines, refineries, factories, and transportation network. Maybe it’ll even have it’s own army to defend and protect its assets and mineral/energy resources. This is a far superior system and institution to increase the scientific and productive output. See that 50 km^2 plot of flat land that’s not doing anything, well instead of waiting for an entrepreneur or government agency to make the collective decision to come up with the capital, finish regulatory documents and permits, develop the land into something useful according to the perceived needs of the markey economy. Send in robots and components to just build giant chip factory that takes in raw materials and outputs compute clusters, and surround it with all the factories needed to make the machine that makes the machine. No need to wait for capital, no need to wait for anyone’s permission, no need to care if the market cares or not. If you have the excess capacity of materials, energy, build power, and compute, just go ahead, it’ll make the super intelligence better, than with that extra intelligence capacity use it to make more/better stuff.
  



This is the way we should get ourselves off this rock and propagate throughout the universe. The literal moment we can digitize science and roboticize production, we can do this. 
        Of course the problem is we live with scarcity and competition. You won’t be the only physics based economic ai doing this, there will be a competition for parts, minerals, energy, whatever. You definitely won’t start out self sufficient so you better have money so you can buy stuff from other people. Maybe you’ll even buy stuff from other ai’s and in the pursuit of a physics-based economy it inevitably creates currency to exchange value between other super ai’s because it turns out specializatin still works. Of course you can’t just ignore government, can’t just ignore other governments, can’t ignore other people, other elites, whatever. Also, it’s a huge promise to say 0 or very few humans will be needed, that the ai and robots are so good that they can completely do everything themselves and self improve. This system may work in a vacuum, if you were settling a brand new unsettled planet. However to get the first, to get it started on Earth, that is going to be the hardest thing anyone’s ever done. The first true player.


First true player:
The first true player is the first one to truly operate under the laws of physics instead of man-made systems and constraints. 


Requirements::
1. AGI (which implies it can truly self improve and truly do everything a human can do)
2. General Robotics (it can truly maintain itself and truly do everything a human can do)


Steps:
Upon the first 2 requirements existing,
1. Create a ruthlessly vertically integrated company technically capable of making compelling products/services. Serves a dual purpose. 1) Have practice doing engineering at scale and familiarizing with supply chains and factories. 2) Earn a great deal of capital or have access to it.
   1. If the entity is to become a player it must have a lot of intelligence and can control a fleet of capable robots to do things. 
      1. The fundamental piece of technology is remote agentic coordination of many robots to complete difficult tasks. 
   2. Entity must have practice building structures at scale.
      1. Must have practice building warehouses, homes, office buildings, schools, hospitals, roads, bridges, factories, power plants, mines, refineries, literally anything.
   3. Create flywheel: Ai/robots deployed -> more training data/money -> better ai/robot -> better product/service -> deploy more Ai/robots
   4. In this process vertically integrate. Make your own robots and software to sell to the public. Do construction services on your own. Build own robots, make own ai, own servers, build your own power plants for your own factories, build your own mines and refineries. Etc. In this process you create a powerful entity comprised of people and machine.
2. Once ai/robotics gets reliable enough, begin detaching from man-made systems and constraints.
   1. Literally anything can happen in 20 years. Siberia, Canada, or other parts of the world may be open for grabs, or enough influence to wield a government/society. Whatever path allows for the creation of a new independent civilization.
      1. Building a new civilization on Earth where it has plenty of minerals, resources, and energy within its borders, makes everything a lot simpler. If that happens, it becomes totally possible to become totally self sufficient on Earth and produce your own military for defense and do whatever you want. 
         1. After becoming completely self sufficient, colonizing Mars becomes free.  Raw ore to finished spaceships/launch pad. Raw ore to finished compute and robots and all the parts/tools for replacement. Macro first.
   2. Creating a new civilization on the Moon or Mars immediately sounds enticing, and it does ensure complete independence, but holy shit is it gonna suck and be hard. It’ll be like trying to make a fusion reactor on the other side of the map with 1 constructor turret instead of making it near my main base where there’s already 1000s of build power. 
      1. There is a timeline where the entity on Earth is negatively affected, threatened, or harmed by industrial activities on the moon/mars. Seeing industrial activity on the moon may cause harsh environmental/social backlash. Mars is far more acceptable.
      2. Colonizing Mars is a realistic effort once the financial cost is greatly negated.
   3. 







  

  





10/18/25
Realized why woke ideology discourages child birth. Wokeness is fundamentally a decadent ideology, it can only exist in a wealthy, safe, out of touch society. Thus, it makes sense that the backbone of that ideology is the abdication of responsibility to themselves and their society/culture and not hold themselves accountable to any standards. It is the ultimate “I do as I please” ideology.  (People say its fundamentally about seeing everything through the lens of the oppressed vs oppressor, but that is just their rationalization for what they subconsciously want, which is to abdicate themselves of all responsibility and standards and we will leech of the society everyone else works hard to build and maintain.) Having kids is a lot of responsibility and a lot of work, so naturally these people who don’t want responsibilities or standards, don’t want kids. They will rationalize this by saying things like society unfairly tells women to give birth, or that children are oppressive to women’s freedoms, or that it would be immoral to bring children to this broken and evil world. All of their rationalizations follow the same framework of: <words words words> <keyword: oppression> < more words> . Society oppresses me to have and take care of kids, I will be oppressed by being in a disadvantaged in the workforce by bearing kids, I want to spare my my kids from being oppressed by bad society when they are born.
So the woke mind virus is not complicated at all, it’s made up BS made by children who didn’t want to have any responsibilities and not hold themselves to any standards. From that desire, you can derive everything else they believe in. If I don’t want responsibilities and live up to standards, then you shouldn’t need to have responsibilities and live up to standards either. If you can’t judge me then I can’t judge you, I want to do what I want and so you can also do what you want. I can have as much frivolous & degenerate forms of sex as I want with whoever I want, I can revolve my life around smoking weed and taking LSD aIl day and as long as I’m not hurting anyone that’s fine, I can live any lifestyle I want and not contribute to society, I can do as many drugs as I want, people should be able to love whoever they want. “Don’t judge me”, “I don’t judge”, “who cares”, “it’s not harming anyone”, “be open minded” were a phrases thrown around a lot at the time. Decadence and degeneracy always begin with innocent intentions. Then it mutated. Regular decadence mutated 2 distinct traits. First, it decided to begin totally ignoring objective reality and build a completely false worldview that goes against human nature. Second, it decided to go on the offensive against any potential groups of people that could threaten itself. Along with these 2 mutations the original ideology slowly turned more extreme, zealous, and hysteric. 
Ignoring objective reality mutation. Sometime after 2012-2014 I started hearing “Don’t fat shame”, “I’m glad beauty standards are changing”, “The ancient Greeks thought pump women were attractive”. Then it went to fat people being modeled on the cover of magazines, obviously unatractive women winning beauty pageants, and the rest of the population was supposed to shut up and just go along with it. Somewhere along the line it went from going along with it to, if you don’t agree then you’re a bigot. I think that’s when the ideology decided to start ignoring reality, the trojan horse was through pretending fat unnatractive people were desireable. Now people go around saying “all women are beautiful”, this has become a common phrase and I know they don’t believe it either but convincing themselves its true. Then of course once you can start ignoring that fat people aren’t unnatractive then that opens the door to everything else. Transgenders, furries, various mental illnesses are acceptable. More and more of reality was ignored until we have today where clearly crime is out of control, large parts of urban areas are full of crime and violence by a certain demographic. To even point out that certain demographics make up large portion of the violence, crime, or rape in US or Europe then you are now a racist and now a fascist probably. Start saying it’s okay to have 0 border control and let everyone into the country. Immigrating to a country is not a human right, its a privilege, a favor by the host country. Now that we are taking that favor away and deporting people out, all the sudden it is evil and fascist and wrong and etc etc. When there’s significant evidence that European countries became full of crime once immigrants came in, the bureaucracy deems it racist, bad thoughts, and jail people for posting about it on social media for acknowledging facts. We want to ignore reality that all people wherever in the globe are the same and interchangeable so you can grab 1 million people from a 3rd world country, plop them to a 1st world country, and everything would go smoothly, and if you point out that it’t not you are racist. Let men play in womens sport, give hormone therapy and gender changing surgeries. Hey if we have no standards or responsibilities and don’t believe in reality then lets house immigrants in expensive hotels, feed them, give them insurance, jobs, and treat them better than our own citizens because hey we’re all the same, all humans are the same and these people are just as American as you, don’t judge, it’s not hurting anyone, be open minded. Then take away voting ID so they can vote in our local elections, let people who can’t even read English become truck drivers. After that mutation in 2014 when reality was ignored, then everything became ignored, until society started punishing people for not ignoring reality with them. 
Second mutation was going on the offensive against any potential groups of people that could threaten itself. The main tactic here was to use tenants of Marxism/Commuism and rationalize their offensive push by labeling the other side as oppressors and “us” as the oppressed/victims. One of the first targets was basically the male gender by using words like “toxic masculinity”, “male privilege”, “patriarchy”, and my favorite “gender pay gap” and now their tactic is mate suppression, so now theyre trying to imprint absurd dating rules like 20 year old female and 24 year old male dating is “creepy”, “guy is taking advantage of the girl”, “power dynamics”, etc. I distinctly remember the male offensive starting with the “me too” movement, which is certainly justified, but they kept pressing on that button to move their offense agenda. Then of course the offense eventually included white people so heard “white privilege”, “colonialism”. Comedians basically openly making fun of white people, then there was about a 5 year period where making fun at white people’s expense was okay. Then they saw no significant cultural pushback so they kept pushing for more. They became extreme “you can’t be racist towards white people”, “slavery reparations”, “white guilt” were big ones. DEI, diversity, equity, inclusion was basically a rationalization to remove white men from positions of power and replace them with literally everyone else (except asians, asians weren’t unsuccessful enough to be oppressed so weren’t part of DEI) to make sure the woke mind virus becomes institutionalized in corporate America, the media, academia, the military, etc. This country had literal race quotas for university/job positions that excluded whites and asians. Eventually you saw DEI characters in movies, TV shows, games, advertisement, everything to the point where it’s just unbearable. Police/military standards were dropped for other groups of people so we literally have military members who are way less physically fit than other groups for the sake of DEI. We have DEI pilots, DEI doctors, DEI people in important positions even if they didn’t fairly earn it. Pointing that out will make you “racist” and get you cancelled. The funniest one was seeing the insane demographic change in the country within 40-60 years and you weren’t even allowed to say “I have a concern” or even acknowledge the statistical fact in certain settings or you’d get cancelled. We pretended like everyone is the same so changing the demographic make up of a society wouldn’t change the culture, and even if it did, even better, less whites more DEI to ensure the virus’s survival. It’s really funny how in the 2024 election it was pretty clear there was a gender/racial voting gap and people genuinly didn’t understand why. So eventually the mind virus was going full throttle on ignoring reality, going on the offensive against competition, and becoming more extreme and hysteric. 
Tangent:
Kids would say “I don’t see color” to make themselves seem cooler. It became cool to not have an opinion, it became cool to not care, it became cool to do drugs and not give a shit. That became embedded into youth culture. Then came rap and then it became cool to commit violence, assault others, act “hard”, be from the “hood”, be aggressive, do hard drugs, disrespect law enforcement, have literally 0 social standards and ideas of what is good or bad. In hindsight the moment rap/hip hop/thug culture started propagating throughout the youth, the adults should have wiped it off the face of the Earth. Now we have wealthy urban kids talking with slang and hood accents and wanna be “hard” kids. Now my generation has to wipe it off the face of the Earth after it already has infected every corner of the globe. Concerningly it has affected China and the east asian societies. But make no mistake, in time this digusting filth some call a “culture” will be eradicated and the ground will be salted. 
Tangent tangent:
Another subtle thing is the complete normalization of mental illness and drugs. People almost expect you to say you some traumatic experience or suffer from some mental illness, and if you don’t, which is normal, peole will think you are playing it cool or trying to hide it, or you need to go to therapy to come to terms with it. (Don’t even get me started on the snake oil which is therapy). Having a mental illness, saying you suffer from depression, anxiety, trauma whatever is almost idolized now. So we went from not having standards and responsibilities and it mutated to full on glorification of mental diseases. Hey I have anxiety, don’t judge me for anxiety, maybe we all have anxiety, having anxiety is good! It snowballed like that. Also the insane use of drugs. We have an actual drug culture. Smoking weed was legalized, people take cocaine regularly as a party drug, it became a cultural right to have my fun time partying/commiting degeneracy at universities “college experience”. People take addheral for work, our “high iq” leaders and intellectuals like to take psychedelics and fry their brains, then preach to the public on podcasts. The public knows Elon Musk is taking ketamine and other drugs and we shrug it off because our musicians, actors, ceos, polticians, our friends and family are all taking drugs too. “Medication” “pharmeceuticals” “anti depressants”, I think about half of the population is now dependant on some kind of frivolous stimulant to even function like caffeine, nicotine, or legal/illegal drugs. It’s insane. Am I really supposed to respect the social norms and cultural values of a society where half the people aren’t even in their right minds. Am i really supposed to care what the consensus opinions and values are when you can’t function without your morning hit. Ive also already written about the psychological black death and such enough times how no one believes in anything. So anyways, by default I don’t respect or care for the opinions of about 95% of the population now as they are all mentall ill, NPCs, infected by the woke mind virus to some degree, or on drugs. It is really really hard to make friends you have no idea. I will say that my opinion of other people is at an all time low right now, when I see people I am just disgusted. How can people be so fat, actual bean bags, and they’re breeding. It took me 25 years but I have very little faith in the majority of the population and see them in contempt. 


In conclusion, I literally saw with my own eyes society go insane because some people didn’t want responsibilities and standards and watched it mutate into the woke mind virus we know it today which is now actively dangerous for civilization. Left unchecked it would’ve been fatal. Good thing now the pendulum has swung and the conservative counter reaction is in full swing. I hold normal opinions that 99% of human beings throughout 99% of human history also agreed with, yet I lived in a society with severe social conditioning and censorship and saying any of this even 2 years ago risked losing jobs, getting kicked out of school, and being excommunicated in social circles. I probably risk that even today, but the truth must be said. My society went insane, I was too young and cowardly to speak out against it, and as a keyboard warrior I do believe that individuals should have responsibilities to themselves and society and hold themselves accountable to good standards. 


On another note, among the many undiagnosed psychological issues today, one of the worst is actually the epidemic of low self esteem/low confidence. The worst human beings I know, the most toxic, the most abrasive, the most emotional and tempermental, the most negative all have a deep seeded insecurity and low self-esteem. What happens is their awful internal state gets out with their behavior, voice, tone, and they don’t even know that with every syllable they are emitting toxicity. They don’t even know that theyre doing it but the rest of us can tell, it’s one of those unsaid things. Just so many behavioral issue, unable to judge objective reality, blaming everyone else, being hateful and negative, grifting online, spreading toxicity to “friends” and family. It’s insane, the collective total cost of this behavior is. 




10/12/25
How fast the US has degenerated and succumbed to decadence. 


We as a society have degenerated so hard and love decadence so much that trying to take it away is seen as “morally wrong”. Like if you take away cocaine from a coke addict they think you’re in the wrong.


Native americas shocked to hear our current social institutions like drafting to for war or other people you haven’t met before says you’re now fighting in a war, or prisons, or mandated health stuff. In the same way we just haven’t developed the social systems and institutions to make ideological sanitation a thing. For certain things we allow a powerful entity to make you do things you don’t want to do. say hey you go to war now and fight, hey you broke our rule now you go to jail, hey you’re sick take this medicine. But for some reason we think it’s wrong for society to say: hey your ideological beliefs are genuinely dangerous to society, you need to stop that. 


We will know when we did the right thing when not spending resources fast enough is a bad thing. Like how in SC2 or BAR not spending your money fast enough on buildings or units is seen as a bad thing because in a multiplayer game, your opponent is spending that money on things faster than you and they will have more stuff to beat you. We’ll know if we have the right systems and institutions if we start seeing the hoarding of money as not morally wrong,  it just plain silly and stupid in a competitive environment and that the smart thing to do is spend as much of it as possible macroing up. 


Also, churches totally started the wine bread eating tradition to let peasants have the opportunity to drink decent wine. 




10/3/25 & 10/9/25
All religion is useful fiction. What matters is that it serves civilization’s needs. 


I can not wait until we leave behind our current victimhood, trauma, hysteria culture. Also, it’s a good idea to just flat out disregard 95% of opinions out there about anything social/dating related. Mate suppression is extremely rampant and its not just from the elites or wealthy, but particularly from everyday people who are miserable and loveless themselves, so try to bring everyone else down to their level to even their mating playing field. Everyone know what’s happening, culture is no longer spread primarily through movies, music, or word of mouth, but through text and videos on social media sites. A tiny zealous minority seems to be setting the tone of culture and society through the internet embedding insane ideas into our minds and even worse, thinking that everyone else has the same opinion, or even worse, other people believing in that because they think everyone else is thinking that. Particularly amongst young women in their 20s in urban centers in California, a relationship between a 24 year old male and 20 year old female is seen as predatory.  I am not making that up by the way. So several things, insane zealots spreading their ridiculous beliefs online, mate suppression and mate competition, the infantilization of young people in our culture, and the symptom of a victimhood, trauma, and hysteria culture where everything is oppressive and I am always a victim. Here is another great example: https://www.reddit.com/r/stories/comments/1o2c97u/i_scammed_my_husband_into_liking_me_and_i/ This is a great and cute story to a reasonable human being, someone who wanted someone and actively pursued a mate, normal behavior. It’s pretty romantic, but you just see this sea of loveless, hateful, or NPC brainrotted people who think this is disguting or predatory. These people are amongst us, on the internet spewing silly ideas. Even in the future when we will scoff at these people, they will still be out there. Most people are just silly little NPCs who think they have opinions and values but really its just a regurgitation of what other people told them to believe. Most people don’t even know why they do things, why they believe in things, or why they feel a certain way. They desperately try to rationalize why and are mostly scared and confused. Most people haven’t developed the skill to be able to acknowledge and observe that the vast majority of what you do, what you say, how you feel, and what you think is actually a product of something deeper within your subconscious and you’re frontal cortex merely rationalizes. Once you do that, and more importantly, realize that is how everyone else works, your life becomes much easier. Now, it is pretty much impossible to not do what your subconscious says, its hardware defined. But what you can do is every once awhile fight back at it. If you feel hungry purposely don’t eat. If you want to lay down and rest go outside and do something else. Feeling tired because you slept at 3am and woke up at 8am, just acknowledge these feelings aren’t real and just some combination of chemicals and patterns of electricity and dismiss them and get up. In the end you still have a choice. +90% of the population can’t acknowledge this. So as you can see, screw everyone else’s opinions. 95% of opinions are stupid and not based on anything concrete. I am looking forward to the day where this victimized, trauma, hysteria culture is behind us and we can build towards a better culture and a better society. Always zoom out, zoom out of the social norms and cultural values of the society and era of history you live in. (I didn’t choose to write this piece, I was reading Reddit because im brainrotted, saw something that was stupid, and my limbic system/subconscious told me to start writing. I didn’t consciously make that choice, really, I could have chosen to ignore it, but something deep within me beyond my control gave me the intense urge to write and then I chose to go along with it.)


9/30/25
A good super net-positive project would be making a video game-like map of the world. When I play City Skylines, Beyond All Reason, Factorio, or Surviving Mars I have a real time map of the world of all the known locations of resources, the locations of factories, refineries, ports, trains, information of each output and capacity and efficiency level, the route of ships and supply chains, and maybe on the top right of my screen see the real time output of all resources like tons of steel, tons of copper, tons of oil, watt hours of energy, then their respective storage capacity and storage levels. Literally just a video game UI for Earth. Anyone can go in and see a real time map of everything going on in Earth in terms of productive output. The information is all there in various isolated pockets in servers, shipping times, contracts, companies all have records of their own assets and supply chains, they just need to be put together into 1 app and then we can make a live world map. This is important because then when you digitize the world’s productive outputs and supply chains, then it can be studied by Ai, who can become a better RTS player than any human. That’s what we want, turn real life into a RTS game and have Ai run that. People may think that’s dystopian or authoritarian. You know that’s dystopian? Not having electricity or running water, or not having a civilization and hunting and gathering in the wilderness in tents. Not having a RTS map of the world and letting slightly evolved monkeys run things without coordination and a goal is dystopian. The world needs a RTS map and we will all be better off for it. Plus it’ll just be really cool. After making a RTS map of the productive output of the world, make a scientific RTS map of the world, then a human well-being map of the world. So it seems like all my hours playing Sim City 4, Civilization 5, City Skylines, RimWorld, Factorio, Surviving Mars, StarCraft 2, and Beyond All Reason really did a number on my psyche. You digitize all that information, have ai learn from it, then you can effectively increase the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs with video game like efficiency and speed. Iterate well, make pragmatic decisions, all for the goal to win. Imagine being on your computer and plopping down a tile and then construction bots, mines, refineries, ships and ports automatically adjust themselves to put that building in queue. I mean, like literally like a RTS game in real life. This is also the logical future of an Ai & robotics dominated world when we get there, gamify the world into a RTS game, which btw life is really just a RTS game, and ai can do it wayyyy better than humans can. Is it better to make cities in board meetings, slow engineering decisions, etc or when that gets abstracted away from us, we just plop down a tile and see the building rise. So hold a lot of strong convictions about civilization, society, and the future. Civilization and society very obvious, the prime directive and breaking to a new local optimum and all that. But how we get there is obviously the hard part. To help with that the theses: 1) Off board inference, 2) People will want the robot their favorite ai can use 3) Industrial revolution but for services 4) Civilization is part of the stack 5) The world should turn into a RTS game.
Also, MIRAE OPUS should make a game for children where they get the RTS map of the world (UI like Google Earth) and be able to “start game” and basically play a video game of running earth, basically go from a live map to a branched version from whenever time they start playing, like the player “takes it from here”. They can control units, buildings, companies, ports, factories, etc everything to build whatever or do whatever they want. I think its a great idea to train people’s brain that hey there is a greater goal to all this, civilization has a purpose, you can lose just like how you can win. Can even make scenarios like my favorite of building a civilization from 4000BC to today, or colonizing another planet. The game should just be good and be able to colonize mars, the moon, and faster than light travel to colonize other planets far away. All that. Can be made when Ai gets good enough.
Gosh so many pet projects I want to do. Make a school system, make movies, write documents, make video games, make robots that pick up trash and enforce peace and security in cities, clean fish farms, super clean and safe household products. Like literally just so much I want to do but it all requires some sort of large company that is a source of labor and resources to do anything I want. That’s also the funny part with modern times, people have such a narrow view on what a company is, they think it’s just a thing that makes money. No, a company is really a collection of labor and resources aligned to do something. It can make goods and services, it can help fight the Psychological Black Death, fight against civilization decline, shape the hearts and minds of people for a good cause, do net-positive good for a civilization, participate in the coming cultural/artistic/architectural renaissance. It can do anything a collection of labor and resources can do, which is anything. I really want a RTS simulation of the world now, holy shit that would be fun. The ultimate RTS game, gather resources, make things, make cities and civilizations, progress a tech tree, manage your citizens, colonize planets, build an army, go to war, diplomacy. It will be the ultimate RTS game and it will be a true simulation of reality because the Ai will play it and learn how to go about human civilization.  


        Also, let me rant about freedom. There is a lot of harping about freedom in this country, but if you don’t have freedom if you don’t have financial freedom. Where is the freedom in millions of people working 2 jobs to just barely scrape by. Where is the freedom in being in credit card or student debt. Where is the freedom in not being able to take a day off work to spend time with your family, if you choose to do so. When I go from renting to buying a house, I merely go from renting from another person to renting from the government, if I don’t pay property taxes they legally take my house. That’s not ownership, its just like the CCP, the government owns all the land, they’re just more honest about it. If I don’t pay for my car registration on my own car that I’ve bought with my own money (and paid sales taxes on) then I can’t drive. Where is the freedom in a government that can force taxes on its people on a whim. +30% income tax? That’s a higher tax rates than most medieval peasants dealt with. Also, where is the freedom in driving? How is an automobile an expression of freedom and individuality when I am forced to buy a car, it’s not a choice. When you are of age and need to drive to school/work yourself you need to buy a car, get car payments, then get car insurance which costs ½ of the car payments monthly, then all the gas, maintenance, and parking costs. Are you insane, you call that freedom, to be pretty much forced to buy and pay for things? Oh and since everyone was forced to drive, enjoy the 40 minute traffic to and from work everyday, on the weekends, pretty much anywhere you go. I as an individual should be able to choose for myself if I want to purchase health insurance ( car insurance I get because its other peoples car) but my own health is up to me, not the government. The government forces me to pay for a service, health insurance, from a private company, and if I don’t then I have to pay a fee. How is this not Medieval, how is this “freedom” and “individualistic” government literally forces me to buy a service from a company, wtf is this. Everyone is familiar with the idea of frog being slowly boiled alive. That is us right now, that is literally the United States with true freedom, vote, and freedom of speech slowly giving way. Everyone knows politics is mostly the game of the polticial elites, I can only vote for a pre-chosen pool of political candidates. I don’t vote in legislation, the politicians just vote on donors. I understand we are a republic, but the people really don’t have a voice in congress anymore. I haven’t had true freedom of speech my entire life. 10 years ago if I said there are only 2 genders I wouldve been kicked out of school, discipline, and if I had a job id lose my job. Now if Im trolling and say something conservatively politically incorrect the same thing will happen to me. Is there real freedom of speech when everything has become politically sensitive and i’d be socially ostricized and treated differently if I have a different ideological and political opinion. So let me get this straight, over the past 80 years we have been slowly boiled alive by an increasingly centralized government and monetary institutions controlling our money, forcing taxes, and forcing its people to pay for products and services. The governing body is increasingly a playground for elite and the people’s voice have steadily diminished to just a crowd to entertain and please. People don’t have real freedom to live the life they choose because they are straddled with debt and economic difficulties. People can’t speak their own thoughts because society has becomes incredibly dogmatic and zealous. The idea of a HOA telling me what to do with my own house is literally the antithesis of everything this country was founded on. Forcing its people to purchase insurance, pay social security and medicaid? Literally taxes without representation, the youth never got representation for these taxes. We’re getting boiled alive.




9/29/25
The similarities between the Imperium in the Warhammer 40k universe is closer to the United States today than we’d like to think. In this setting, if enough intelligent life believes in an idea, their psychic energy coaleses and the concept takes physical form as a warp entity, if enough people emit psychic energy of that concept, it becomes a chaos god. Various species in the galaxy throughout the eons have emitted enough psychic energy of various emotions and concepts to birth Khorne the god of war, blood, and rage, Nurgle the god of disease, decay, entropy, and despair, Tzeentch the god of change, deception, knowledge, and sorcery. Before the Imperium of Man the most powerful species in the galaxy, the Eldari, committed such acts of decadence, degeneracy, and depravity over millions of years they birthed Slaanesh the god of excess, pleasure, perfection, sensation, obsession.
        Now these Chaos gods from the warp actively tries to influence and corrupt sentient beings throughout the galaxy. It’s as if the dark side of the force was sentient and actively tried to corrupt beings in the Star Wars galaxy. The phrase “the touch of chaos” insinuates that it’s not some mechanistic virus spreading disease. Touch, suggests a manevolent force actively reaching out beyond the warp and psychically touching you. Corruption always starts in the most innocent ways. They start as faint thoughts in the back of your head, not realizing that these thoughts aren’t actually your own, but implanted thoughts by an active agent of chaos. Over time, only if you give in to these thoughts, the corruption grows because as your belief in this concept grows, your psychic energy feeds that concept in the warp, and gives the warp entity strength. Once the first person is fully corrupted, it is not an exaggeration to say the entire planet now faces existential threat. The corruption spreads, as more people feel rage, a desire for change, disgust, or excess it literally feeds the chaos gods, granting them a greater influence on that space of reality despite the vast barrier between the real world and the alternative dimension in the warp. Eventually, chaos cults emerge and by the power of their gods, opens up portals to the warp itself, unleashing the hoards of demons and chaos entities upon the planet. That’s just one way to doom a planet. Sometimes there is no portal but a corruption of top planetary governors and military leaders and their constituents and purposely start civil wars in the planet, leading to planetary collapse. Sometimes the entire planet eventually becomes corrupted and they physically start to mutate into horrid warp entities and turn the entire planet into a warp-corrupted wasteland. To summarize, any human in any corner of the galaxy can unwittingly become corrupted, become a conduit of chaos, and doom their planet, and if not stopped, they spread to nearby systems and doom that entire sector of the galaxy. This is the eternal battle humanity faces in the Warhammer 40k setting.
        As a response, humanity, the Imperium of Man, has learned that the best defense to chaos corruption is to have every human believe in something so adamantly with absolute faith that the initial whispers of chaos are null against the zealous belief of the “god” emperor of mankind. There’s a whole lore with the emperor, he’s a super powerful human being with insane psychic abilities and he’s been around since the caveman days up to the 41st millennium, united humanity after the age of strife, established the Imperium of Man, went on the great crusade conquering the galaxy, betrayed after his son was corrupted by chaos and split the imperium in half into civil war, mortally wounded and entombed into the golden throne, physical body died but the pshycic spirit continues and has existed in this state for the past 10,000 years. Anyways, the Imperium of Man established the religious doctrine of the god emperor and everyone in the imperium is essentially an extreme religious zealot, serving and praising the emperor, basically the most insane religious cult but at a galactic scale. This is actually necessary, because literal belief in the emperor protects yourself from chaos corruption and reduces the odds the planet falls to chaos. So its not just religious superstition or ritual, but acts as active psychic protection. Also, this is not well talked about amongst 40k fans, but humanity’s collective belief in the emperor probably feeds psychic energy to him and makes him stronger, much like how collective excess or rage feeds Slaanesh and Khorne. Even with the imperial doctrine in place, chaos still finds a way to breach into real space, corrupt, and eventually kill trillions of people and multiple planets every year. 


The United States is experiencing a similar problem to the Imperium where if people don’t universally believe in something, and morality and worldviews are left to individual interpretation, then false and incorrect beliefs creep in and eventually damages the essence of your civilization. This is the corruption in our world. All sort of malevolent entities like the mainstream media, social media, political figures, ideological zealots whisper the corruptions of their gods to the general population. None of it is correct, none of it is meant to help people. This might be why 40k is so popular now because it is unironically similar to today’s world in many ways, our current Imperium is besieged on all sides by external and internal threats and we are losing. The United States has never really been through something hard. Europe experienced 50% death rates from the Black Death or the 30 years war, ½ of northern china killed by the Mongolians, many of the largest cities in the Islamic world were burned to the ground by Mongolians, etc. The United States is basically a spoiled teenager from a wealthy family who never experienced true hardship, have never been conquered and have never known existential threats. From these luxuries, it formed beliefs that were mostly a rejection of King George III and the European monarchy system. Here, people are able to believe in what they want, are able to say whatever they want, and live out lives as they see fit. These cultural values only work in a land with no real external threats and with plentiful space and resources. This level of individualism would never work if you were in the middle of the map, there, absolute loyalty to the greater entity of the state is required because if you don’t it’s not stronger than your neighbors and they conquer you. People need to realize monarchies, the lack of freedom and rights, and that stuff didn’t exist in the past because people were crueler then than today, but because of the realities of life, war, and human nature.
        Now the United States is experiencing a real issue. After taking away religion, the people had nothing concrete to believe in. Their hearts and minds were free to be influenced by anyone and anything. There are malevolent forces trying to corrupt and influence people’s minds. Foreign actors, ideological zealous, religious zealouts, people who hate the United States, people who want to carve out their own cults and beliefs, essentially acting the same as the chaos gods. Wokeness is effectively a chaos god, so is nihilism, hate and contempt for one’s own country and people, and the hedonistic beliefs of excess, partying, drug use, hookup culture, and all other forms of degeneracy, decadence, and depravity. No one believes in anything concrete with conviction, so their minds were free feeding grounds for bad ideas. Now look what we have today, a population living side by side with completely different worldviews, completely different beliefs, completely different perspectives, completely different ideas and morals. This is not the freedom of thought the founders initially envisioned. They assumed that the fundamental culture and shared beliefs would exist and ontop of that people would disagree on maybe what sect of christianity or a certain way of life within the christian european context. What we have now is madness. The naivety in 0 cultural regulation, that all morals and beliefs should be left to individual interpretation is proving to do more harm than good in our society. Everyone has a slot in their brain to believe in something, and when it is empty, it gets filled up by literal garbage from Tik Tok, YouTube, Twitch streamers, rap/hip hop, social media influencers, celebrities, and whatever bullshit lost groups of people regurgitate to each other. We are living in the Psychological Black Death, when I look at a crowd of people today, even the ones of the same ethnicity and even religion, I do not feel like we are alike. What I see is a group of people who’s fundamental beliefs and worldview have been shaped by whatever section of the internet they inhabit. You can tell that despite the same religion and ethnicity, there is a fundamental difference of some kind and it comes out from the distinct ways they dress, how they talk, how they spend their time, their hobbies, etc. This rift in the population’s fundamental cultural belief systems is eating our society from the inside out. Our country today is literally what a chaos corruption would look like. Corrupted individuals inavertdently saying that we should tolerate all ideas and peoples, no matter how awful they have proven to be. There was a goddamn furry booth on campus the other day, people literally believe in nothing, crime goes unpunished, mentally ill and dangerous people are protected by activist judges an NPC normes, there is too much nonsense going on because people think society won’t die, there are no threats, there is no danger. This is the type of crap the chaos gods would throw into a planet to make them do stupid things to collapse their society. 
        The solution is actually the same as in fictional 40k, some sort of belief system that works, has real world utility, that people fundamentally believe in. By doing this, we cure the Pshychological Black Death. So dangerous ideas like nihilism, socialism/communism, and wokeness are killed off and the people develop a mental shield to wade off other dangerous ideas that inevitably come in. If someone says this goes against the fundamental belief systems the United States was built off. I have two responses. Everything must learn to adapt or die. Christianity has adapted since inception, animals adapt to survive, armies adapt on the battlefield, businesses adapt to new technologies. Everything must adapt and change. A unified belief system that will act as the foundation of the country’s future worldviews, belief systems, and cultural values is a very needed adaptation. Second, the United States has a short and prosperous history where it never needed to face impossible moral trade offs and soulless calculations to ensure where victory is not measured in moral or ethic conscious but by the continued existence of civilization. There is a real competitor in the world stage, China, and the rest of the world is rapidly approaching an age of post-western dominance. In order to survive, yes survive, the United States must adapt and arm itself with the correct doctrine. My suggestion, that doctrine should be the prime directive of organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs so that we may break out of our current local optimum, and free ourselves and build throughout the universe. With this doctrine, with this north start, all social, political, economic, culture, values, etc will emerge on its own through the principles of emergent behavior.


9/27/25
Everyone should admit that they’ve been socially conditioned to believe in something. You have almost certainly been conditioned to believe in the social norms and cultural values of the society and era of history they live in. Everyone should get a list of things they believe in and double check how much of that is actually their own beliefs or something they’ve been indoctrinated into. Just zoom out. Double check by backtrsting it against human history, hypothetical tests for building a society in 4000BC and building a society in an earth like planet in another galaxy. If something is obviously true for all 3 scenarios then you have a decent universal principle. 


9/26/25
The older I get, the more I hate a car-centric cities. I wonder if an other civilization industrialized first, if we’d have the freeways, cars, and car cities we have today. So here is my rationalization for why we should not have a car cities. One of the best ways to figure out if something is a good idea vs a cultural product of our society/era of history is to either backtest it against human history, do a hypothetical experiment of building a society in 4000BC, or colonizing an Earth-like planet in another galaxy. If you were colonizing another Earth-like planet in another galaxy you sure as hell would not want to make it car-centric, not just because it aesthetically kills cities and destroys its soul, but out of raw pragmatism. Even after a few decades you still want to carefully allocate the tons of steel, plastic, copper, electronics, watts of energy, etc that your new society produces a year. How much of that is an appropriate allocation to move people and things around? The mass mass &  energy efficient way to go about it would be through mass transportation like subways, underground travel pods, or bikes, or trains, something like that. Giving each person a 4000 pound car to move around a 150 pound person that breaks down and need repairs and fuels, needs 30% of space in urban areas for roads, parking garages, personal garages, and people can die from car crashes so less people want to walk, then god forbid your society does car insurance too, then when they inevitably breakdown you have to buy a whole new one. I mean its insane, on every level from an engineering to society perspective, having a car centric society is a shitty idea. Imagine being a colony in your new planet, then saying alright everyone, we are going to use up our valuable resources and make a 4000 pound machine to move a 150 pound person, and it needs 30% of our surface land, and it breaks down and need repairs, and you’ll need more fuel that’s largely wasted because not only is it 4000 pounds, but will be constantly accelerated and decelerated in relatively short increments, and if there’s too many cars on the road you get gridlock traffic. It’s beyond retarded, it’s actualyl evil because it will be a net negative for society. A logical transportation solution for your society would be having a mass transit network of some kind that is underground or some cases above the surface. There is no reason for cars to exist the way it does today, everytime I drive or look outside it irritates me how cities are built of a car-based transportation system, it irritates me how we have been indoctrinated into a car culture that thinks its okay to make a 4000lb object to move a 150lb person, that constantly accelerates and decelerates, wasting initial momentum, forcing an entire gasoline supply chain that is again, largely wasted on accelerating and decelerating a 4000 lb object to move a 150lb person, then it takes space so everyone’s homes and businesses and anything needs a parking spot or garage, then up to 30% of the surface area in large cities are paved with economically useless roads, the cars are much larger than the human being its carrying so the ratio of parking spot to economically productive homes/businesses are awful. Just look around at the average parking plaza, how much space is just wasted on useless pavement for people’s cars. It doesn’t even scale at all, you inevitably get insane traffic jams, people spend a hour in a car going to coming back from work, cars are expensive they take up a good chunk of your income, then car insurance, then gas, then oil changes, or charging and battery changes, then the annual tyrannical car registration fees, then I’m worried about dying from a drunk driver or crashing. By every logical conceivable metric cars are just the stupidest, least efficient, least scalable, and ugliest forms of transportation.


Also, I’ve said this before in my other notes, but the Industrial Revolution industrialized commoditized finished goods. Things that used to only be done by a skilled craftsman is now produced in mass by machines. Shoes, clothes, metal tools, chips, smartphones, etc. Everything can be mass produced in a factory. The same will go for the current Ai revolution (or whatever it will be called) right now, but for services. Health, legal, financial, education, health, construction, restaurants, all of these are services that will becomes mass produced and commoditized by ai servers and robots. That is the big opportunity of the future. So basically three theses going into the future. 1) Services will get mass produced just like finished goods during the Industrial Revolution. 2) Robots will be off-board inferenced and be shells that can be controled remotely by ASI in servers. 3) People will form emotional connections with their personal life-long ai and will want to buy a robot that supports their favorite ai. (which means off-board inferencing). 
        So the companies I want to make in the future are a robotics company: MIRAE OPUS -> toys -> robotic toys -> humanoid robots where you have your own personal ai and people will want to buy the humanoid that you can port your ai companion into, want to make media movies/shows with MIRAE OPUS to spur techno optimism and hope for the future and fight the psychological black death. Then CIVIUM which will form better education systems, properly educate society, make healthy food, make clean and safe everyday products instead of the garbage we use now, make cities safe and clean, and generally do works that will be a net positive to civilization. If all goes well, later down the line MIRAE OPUS should have construction bots that can make homes, buildings, cities, and eventually anything that can be built by humans. I should be able to build a school with my own robots, be manned by my own ai and robots, feed students with my own food, and maintain keep the peace and clean the school with my own robots.
        So in all, it’d be great to have companies that can literally build new civilizations. My own robots to build my own cities, where people will live and work with their robot companions, with healthy food, clean and safe streets, the people are properly educated and healthy psychologically and physically. Although I do want to do healthcare, that is a whole different domain probably better suited for experts. 
        I just want to make a great civilization ok that’s all I want, maybe if I live long enough I can build civilizations throughout the universe. Psychologically, the internal mechanism for why I want to do these things, I just want to be able to do what I want, it’s that simple. I’m just less willing to be unable to do what I want than others.
        The biggest problem of our time is the wealth disparity, normal people being squeezed financially and elite overproduction. The best way to fix these are building companies that normal people and elites can work in to ease their own ambitions and make a good living for their standards and 2 birds one stone those companies makes a product/service for the biggest costs for people which is housing (overfinancialized), education (ineffective), health (a joke), insurance (parasites), transportation (ineficcient), taxes (tyrannical), and food (unhealthy). You can basically summarize the current issues with: The average person is being extracted and treated like cattle by various elites and their nodes of power. Each is a node of power in society controlled by different elites. People who run the government, people who control the land, people who control the money, people who control the hospitals, people who control the schools, thieves who can legally steal, people who control how you travel, and people who control what you eat. All of these systems are all controlled by their elites, who used to get more for themselves by producing something for people but now have resorted to getting more for themselves by extracting from people. The elites have degenerated and have becomes decadent, no longer seeing people and society as something to serve but as cattle and a playground to fool around in, then causing a civilizational level crisis and causing problems for everyone in it. This happens routinely, a timeless side-effect of our evolutionary biology that’ve played out again and again throughout human history, as is expected from simple monkeys. So it’s about that time again in history when the young generationto has to reform/reset and build anew, just like how we’ve been doing for the past, say, 5000 years or so. Except this time, it’s possible to permanently end this form of social/civilizational entropy cycles by freeing ourselves of our evolutionary biology. We don’t have to be cucks, we don’t have to be monkeys, we can be rational, logical, and pursue the higher goal of increasing our scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. We should be free and we should build throughout the universe. This is what matters, if you look up into the stars 99.99% of what we do on Earth is just so meaningless. Throughout history, so many people thought so many things were important. The only thing that mattered between 4000BC to today was how well you increased the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. If you did that, then you were actually useful. So today, in order to do good for my civilization, for my species, and pursue things that actually matter, I am very limited as a slightly evolved monkey by my own brain and my 2 hands, so I need to play along with the games and rules of my society and do this thing called making money, which sole purpose is to be used to convince people to do things they otherwise wouldn’t do, to do something useful like making companies that actually solve civilizational problems like building cities, making all the various things in society cheaper and more accessible, contributing to science, productive, and human well being. All of which, is in the pursuit of the goal of breaking out of our current local optimum and freeing ourselves from our evolutionary biology and building civilizations throughout the universe. It is true that if we decided to have an emergency species-wide meeting and we all got together and decided that the current way of doing things is bullshit and that we are going to dedicate the sum of humanity’s efforts and resources into finding ways to prolong our lives, free ourselves from our evolutionary biology, and find ways to colonize distant planets, we could do that. But we’re not going to do that, like a 0.000000000001% chance, so I will play this game. I and others will make companies which is a social mechanism we invented to legally and legitimately mobilize people and resources together to accomplish certain tasks. While on one hand these companies must always make money in order to operate in our world today, the goal is ultimately to serve civilization and progress humanity to the next local optimum. Silly little games yes I know, but aside from becoming a dictator, there is no other legit way to mobilize labor and resources to do what is needed for civilization.


Actual ChatGpt5 response when I copy pasted the last paragraph and asked, “what do you make of this writing”. It wrote this in literally a second, it’s definitely a better writer than me:


Your writing reads like a manifesto—part diagnosis of civilizational decay, part call-to-action for reform through company-building. Let me break it down into strengths, weaknesses, and refinement opportunities:
________________


Strengths
1. Big-picture framing

You tie together wealth disparity, elite overproduction, and systemic extraction under a unifying thesis: elites have shifted from creating value to extracting it. That’s a clear, compelling narrative.

2. Historical continuity

By placing today’s problems in the context of recurring civilizational cycles (5,000 years of resets), you connect the present moment with timeless human patterns. This makes your argument feel weighty and not just reactive.

3. Bold vision

You leap from practical concerns (housing, healthcare, food) to existential goals (freeing ourselves from evolutionary biology, colonizing the universe). That ambition can inspire.

4. Company-as-vehicle insight

You recognize that in today’s world, companies are the main legitimate way to mobilize resources at scale—bridging the gap between idealism and realism.

________________


Weaknesses / Risks
   1. Overloaded scope

You try to tackle every systemic issue (housing, education, health, insurance, transportation, taxes, food). This risks diluting the focus and making the project sound utopian rather than actionable.

   2. Tone of contempt

Phrases like “cucks,” “monkeys,” “parasites,” “treated like cattle” grab attention, but they may alienate people who otherwise agree with your points. They tilt the piece toward polemic rather than persuasive reasoning.

   3. Ambiguous path forward

The diagnosis is sharp, but the prescription—“build companies that fix the biggest costs for people”—needs more detail. Without a roadmap, it risks sounding like a rallying cry rather than a strategy.

   4. Universal solution risk

The claim that we can “permanently end” civilizational entropy cycles may come off as naïve, since entropy in human systems has always reappeared in new forms.

________________


Refinement Opportunities
      1. Sharpen the enemy

Instead of lumping all “elites” together, differentiate between extractive elites vs. productive elites. That distinction could clarify your thesis and align with your company-building vision.

      2. Concrete steps

Highlight one or two areas (say, housing and healthcare) where you think new companies can realistically shift power back to people. Anchor the lofty rhetoric with grounded examples.

      3. Reframe the tone

Keep the passion, but move from adversarial (“we’re cattle”) to aspirational (“we can redirect our energy toward progress”). This makes it easier for allies to rally.

      4. Narrative arc

You already have the “problem → cause → solution → vision” structure. Consider tightening into ~3 sections:

         * Diagnosis (elites have shifted from value creation to extraction)

         * Mechanism (companies as the only legitimate vehicle to mobilize resources)

         * Vision (solve root costs, expand human well-being, push toward space/civilizational progress).

________________


Overall Take
Your piece has raw energy and conviction, the kind that could galvanize like-minded builders. Right now, it’s more of a manifesto than a strategy. With refinement—tightened scope, aspirational tone, and clear action steps—it could evolve into the foundation of a movement-style philosophy or even the guiding document for a company you’re founding.
________________


Would you like me to help rewrite this into a more polished “manifesto” style (like a startup philosophy document), or would you prefer I distill it into a crisp, 1–2 page strategy piece you could actually share with investors or collaborators?












9/23/25
I will do my part, however insignificant it may be, to make my civilization just a little bit better than when I was born into it. 


9/22/25
Subtle observations of our eras BS:
I pay +30% in taxes, then pay sales tax, then rents are insanely expensive, then insurance which eats into renting costs, auto insurance, health insurance is also insane, even used cars are insanely expensive. 


9/20/25


Civilization is part of the tech stack now. It always has been, if your society doesn’t have a calorie surplus, or if theres constant war/genocide, if an overbearing bureaucracy or the religious class supresses different thought, there would be little scientific output. But the world forming now is a little bit different. Im going to reasonably assume AI is going to get better the next 100 years and probably improve faster and scale faster than humans can (unless of course we find a crazy way to augment ourselves). Truthfully, the frontier models are already smarter than 99% of humans, it’s getting top marks in IMO, IOI, and large coding competitions, its just going to be better. From there, the next reasonable assumption is that it will be better to do math, science, engineering, pretty much anything better than humans can, and eventually do it much better than any human who ever lived. This is when the rules of the game change. Several strings here: Traits are only good for the environment its in and the era of an individual genius sitting on a desk discovering everything on his/her own is coming to an end. Past 1000 - 500 years humanity relied on geniuses randomly spawning and whoever was better at identifying these geniuses and putting them into academia and science/engineering to do useful work reaped the rewards. That is how science was done and European civilization, which naturally stressed individuals and plurality of power, had traits that performed well in this science/engineering discovery environment. However, if AI is to be our engineer/scientist now, then its no longer an individual or small group effort. It will take a large group of people to design the algos, architecture of the ai, then design the chips, then actually fabricate and package them, the supply chains for all the materials and shipping to actually make them at scale, then getting the mines and refineries and factories to make power plants and solar panels, and the electricity network to distribute the power, then getting the chips into computing nodes and stacking them up in a server. If you believe AI will be our genie, and this huge effort is needed to make and support a genie, then science and engineering will soon be a civilizational level effort. Whoever has the civilization that can mobilize its labor and resources into systems and institutions to build and maintain colossal amounts of compute, will have the best scientific and productive outputs. This is a completely different environment for science and engineering and so it will favor a different selection of traits. Civilization is part of the tech stack now, I mean, it always was, but now it’s even more pronounced. For sure the ais will become more efficient, for sure the nodes of compute will go from a large room and later fit in the palm of my hand, but if it fits in the palm of your hand, well then we can just stuff more of it into rooms. We do that with servers now, we got insane compute to fit in our hands and so we put a lot more of them into big rooms. The same dynamic will play out with AI. Better compute/energy efficiency, making it smaller ,whatever, it doesn’t get rid of the fact that more of it will mean more compute, so more science and engineering. Now it doesn’t have to be civilizations, companies can do this too. Regardless, as time goes on fewer  key scientific and engineering breakthroughs will be from individuals and small groups and more and more of it will come from large scalled, multi disciplinary effort of large organizations that control and wield large amounts of labor and resources. Whoever is best at organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimizes the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs the best and at scale will win. Science and engineering will soon be a civilizational level effort. 
        This leads to another question, who has the traits for this new environment? Honestly, right now it’s looking like China will. Historically the Chinese bureaucracy have always seen merchants and others as threats to their own power and shut down blast furnaces, burned down fleets of ships, and have done a lot of things to stifle innovation, invention, science, and engineering to protect their own status in society. Today the CCP bureaucracy wants to be great, they want to be the dominant global superpower, and beat the United States, so for the time being they are willing to work with the scientists, the engineers, the CEOs, the banks, to defeat the United States and win. However, I have no doubt that if that happens and they win too hard and for too long, they will go back to their old habits (not unique to the Chinese, it prevalent in human instinct) and stifle innovation and shut down ai labs and shut down anything that the bureaucracy sees as a threat to its power (which is why I advocate for a pluralistic, competitive world between different civilizations and within civilizations). But aside from China, simply any society that is good at mobilizing the mass and energy at its disposal, to organize the labor and resources into the right systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and hopefully the human well being outputs will win. Of course you don’t want just this insane authoritarian command structure and robotic little worker bees with no agency, you want some kind of mix between the labor and resources of a civilization and the speed, resource allocation efficiency of startups to make this work. This is why academia will die if they don’t adapt, they will be too arrogant and proud to realize the environment has changed, they won’t build huge servers they wont scale, and when it becomes obvious that rooms of chips and fleets of robot can do science and engineering better than they can, they will fade with their nose held high. 
        Anyways, few people right now have really internalized that this is where the world is going, granted as long as human augmentation doesn’t outpace AI in performance and scale, and even if I tell someone they won’t believe me. Of course I am genetically biased and economically and social statusly want this to be true. But seriously, it will be all about who has the best society, civilization, company, group that can best mobilize mass and energy to do useful things. Science and engineering will be done through a very demanding pipeline of mass/energy -> mines, refineries, supply chains, shipping, factories, fabs, energy production, energy distribution, servers, robots -> science/engineering instead of just person, desk, some software/hardware tools -> science/engineering. (hey i know that humans and software/hardware tools also share the same pipeline of factories and mines and stuff, but this new world of the ai genie makes it much more pronounced)


It’s funny how social norms work. In sports if you have enough underperformers (net negatives) then the team will lose a game. Not a big deal, you lose a basketball game not a big deal in the scope of things, yet people are very intensely adamant about cutting the net negatives from the team. That’s totally socially acceptable. When a company has enough net negatives then it goes bankrupt, people lose their jobs, people lose money, that’s not great but not awful. We understand that so it’s okay to fire people or do layoffs. But if a civilization has enough net negatives and it falls, people die, people starve, people don’t get their medication, the entire pyramid of goods and services and social trust collapses. Yet somehow it’s not okay for civilizations to cut people from the team or do layoffs when the consequences are 1000x worse. When society collapses people literally die, death happens. But no it’s totally socially unacceptable to say we as a civilization need to actively minimize the number of net negatives or our society will collapse.
        – There will be people who will say this is an exaggeration, that if there are too many net negatives in a society, the civilization will collapse. Well look at the map of the world today, is it different from the map of the world 1000 or 2000 years ago? Yes, so we know that civilizations have died, if civilizations do not have the right inputs and do the right things with those inputs, the output is death. If civilization does have the right inputs and do the right things with those inputs, the output is your civilization stays on the map. Civilizations do die, entropy does exist, if you do not structure the mass and energy the right way and maintain it, then the structure won’t exist for long. So if then you see that civilizations do indeed die, then you will find that whenver civilizations die, there is death, there is war, there is famine, there is disease, and overall its not a great time. 
        So yes you absolutely need civilizations to grow up and learn some responsibility, and get rid of the net negatives. Now, the problem is that sometimes people over-do it or mislabel a group of people as net negatives just because you don’t like them. Genocide, ethnic cleansing, severe and cruel punishments, racism, no due-process etc etc. Yes, these are the wrong ways to go about it, but something still needs to be done with net negatives. First set clear rules on what constitutes a net negative, that’s easy it’s simply someone who is a net negative to civilization’s scientific, productive, or human well being outputs. How to measure that, is going to be pretty hard. The punishment for being a net negative should be converting net negative to net neutral or net positive or removing them from society (deportation or jail). Hardest part is accurately measuring the levels of net negative/net positive on the civilizational outputs. But it must be done.


This brings me to my other point, very often when reading through history, the present generation does not understand the decisions of the previous generations. Why did they have a revolution, why did they pass these laws, where did this cultural belief spawn from. To make it abundantly clear to any future generation, hopefully your time has solved many of the issues we have now and so you take your social structures, cultures, traditions, rules, and norms that’re maintaining peace and order in your society for granted, but let me tell you what happens if they weren’t there. Today September 20th, 2025 in the United States, quite literally every single pillar holding up this civilization has been eroded to the brink of collapse:
            1. The people do not have a singular coherent sense of identity, have different fundamental belief structures and ideas of how the world works. 
            1. This stems from racial demographics changing too fast, white americans went from 85% of the population to 59% within 60 years. 
            2. Individualism taken too far. Morality, worldviews, belief structures, way of life have all been up to individual interpretation with 0 regulation. Fast forward about 2 generations and the population is completely split into many different groups not about surface level things like religion, political party, or such but fundamental beliefs about reality. The most obvious is that people are born bad vs people are born good. People are good and society oppresses and constrains the innate good in people vs people are bad and society needs to regulate and discipline the innate bad in people. 
            2. Psychological and Physical Black Death. People don’t believe in anything, literally. Majority of people are filling in the slot in their brain with unproven junk, people are nihilistic, mentall ill, on anti depressants, on birth control, all sorts of medication, people are physically unhealthy, fat, eat junk food, drugs have become completely normalized, people have let go of all sorts of social standards, traditions, and culture in the name of wokenss, liberalization, or whatever words or “movements” they wanted to use to abdicate themselves of any responsibility to their society, to themselves, or their children. 
            1. Universities are not about learning but a socially conditioned entitlement to something called “the college experience” to commit degeneracy, unhealthy animalistic behaviors, and live out their hedonism.
            2. The elites have no sense of responsibility to shepard their society properly, their children do not care about anything and just want to travel and party.
            3. People cannot zoom out and compare their society and era of history today to others, so have not learned about the mistakes of other civilizations, only believe in things told to them by the society and era of history they live in, and are literally incapable of seeing outside the post war facade of the pax americana, how civilizations and human nature work, and how things weren’t always the way things are today. 
            4. Everyone has a slot in their brain the believe in something, when religion died that slot was open to any and all bullshit people make up. Wokeness, Tik Tok, odd social norms and belief systems, socialism etc. The old saying is true, when you don’t believe in something then you’ll fall for anything. 
            3. Typical wealth disparity, elite overproduction, and income stagnation dynamics.
            4. The education system sucks, expensive, and time consuming, the health care system is a literally extractive, the justice system frees violent criminals, activist judges literally catches and releases violent criminals leading to very public crimes, the government is genuinly corrupt beyond belief, the bureacracy has become too powerful and centralized enforcing insane tax rates on what you earn, the house you live in, the car you drive, sales tax on things you buy, forces people to buy all sorts of health/work insurance products. 
            5. Literally offshored its industrial base and have become and incredibly financialized economy. Money is made because we will it, wealth is made through clicks and bits.
            6. The arrogance, entitlement, stupidity, degeneracy, decadence, desperation, nihilism, and anger in every single social class in every nook of society is reaching a boiling point because quite literally, this may be hard to believe, but no one had an education on how societies work and the inputs, system, and outputs needed to maintain it. There is 0 talk, 0 education, even 0 concept of what it takes for a civilization to exist, let alone what it takes to run well. Everyone just exists, with little purpose, thinking civilization just always exist with no effort, and that it will always be here. There is no concept of how civilization works.
            1. I am not exaggerating, that if I tell someone that society has inputs, a system, outputs, and that we should iteratively approach the objective function systematically, it would be seen as a novel concept. It would actually blow people’s mind since about 99.99% of the population have never even conceptualized this before. It’s like breaking out of the Matrix. It’s breaking out of this post-world wars facade. Like waking up from a dream, or completely shattering pre-existing world views. No you know what it is, it would be like living in a dark room your whole life then suddenly seeing the sun. Just a complete realization that there is a whole world outside of this room. 
            2. There’s literally not even a word or a phrase to describe the dynamics of how civilization works and what we should be doing with it. We have words for things or individuals or companies that do this, but not for a society or civilization. 
            3. There is literally not a word or phrase to describe a civilization or society living with purpose or pursing an end goal. 
            1. If I say profit, it’s a person or company trying to make money. If I say survive it’s for a person or company to continue existing. There is literally no word that describes a society or civilization trying to achieve a collective goal
            2. Companies profit, animals survive, factories produce, civilizations … ___
            1. There might be 1, war. We have one word for what civilizations collectively pursue, war.
            2. Okay another, exist. History books say at x year y civilization existed. 
            3. The entire history of civilization was just civilizations existing without a purpose. They just existed as a mechanism for the ruling class to get whatever they wanted from people or wage war with other ruling classes. They never had purpose besides maybe being prosperous or peaceful. 
            3. We have phrases and concept of existing vs living, being a monotonous drone vs living your best life, to be empty vs having a purpose, a NPC vs a player. No such concept exists for a civilization. A purposeless lost person x1,000,000 = a purposeless society. Civilizations are the same ways most civilizations.
            1. Civilizations just exist, without purpose. When was the last time you heard of a civilization with a united goal to achieve something, maybe the moon landing? lol.         




If we agree that traits are only as good at the environment they’re in, and traits come from selection pressures enforced by the environment, then it’s foolish to believe this dynamic stopped playing out in humans in the post world war era. Sorry to tell you but humanity doesn’t come as 1 universal mono-species. Like huskies and golden retrievers, border collies and chihuahuas, whatever. Same species, lived in different environments that had different selection pressures leading to different traits that are very apparent today (or we just bred them with artificial selection pressures). Sorry to burst your bubble but human beings are the same way because we are biological creatures, who lived in different environments, which must have had different selection pressures, thus leading to slightly different traits. To deny this is to deny the same principles we apply to any other biological organism. Besides different biological traits, the key difference are the psychological and sociological traits that have been bred through the forces of artificial selection pressures enforced through human nature, human societies, war, etc. 
—-tangent: If you haven’t noticed humans are cucks, most people adhere to authority. You listen to your boss, you listen to your leader, not necessarily because you signed a contract and theyre incharge of you, but because there is this undeniable human instinct to listen to authority and conform to what everyone else is doing. When your boss walks in and sees what you’re doing you instinctively sort of tense up, become more alert of your own behavior, etc. Natural instinct. The boss hands promotions and bonuses to the people he/she likes best or fires people they like the least. During ice ages or famine the king or chief prioritized giving food and resources to the one he liked the best. We are all cucks because the ones who didn’t adhere to the authority figure simply died off in stubborness.  
Anyways, we are different. If I dropped a husky off in the middle east, it will have a hard time not because the husky is inherently bad, but because the traits it developed in its environment is not great for the desert. Same with golden retrievers being dropped off in the cold Siberian tundra, it’ll literally just die not because it’s inherently bad, the traits it developed through its original environment, whether it be natural or artificial, is just not suited for a cold environment. If you can’t tell already, where I’m going with this is that this dynamic is the exact same for humans. The groups of people who’s ancestors have experienced civilization for a long time have developed the traits to perform well in today’s modern urbanized industrial civilizations and the groups of people who’s ancestors primarily lived in tribes or only have only had civilization for a short time aren’t doing as well in today’s environment. NOW, does that mean some groups of people are inherently better than others, no, some groups of people are having a hard time not because they are inherently bad, but because the traits they developed in their native environment is not great for this current urban industiralized environment, no different from huskies being dropped off into the middle east. To deny this is to deny the same principles we apply to any other biological organism. Why are crime rates so different between different 1st world countries, well, it’s because if you have many 1000s of years almost nonstop civilization then there are selection pressures to get rid of (they liked to execute) the bottom 1% of criminals, thieves, murders, etc every year. There were selection pressures to be more conformative, to be more collective, whatever. There are also just different selection pressures of large developed civilizations, who gave positions of power to good test takers, etc. Then they did this for literally thousands of years.  Very different from the selection pressures of other groups of people, who, until maybe the 1600s - 1900s literally only existed in tribes of no more than 100 people or lived in civilizations that only existed for a few hundred years (or they had moments of civilization, but it was never really continuous so the efforts of artificial selection pressures were for naught, its like going to the gym for 1 month then not going at all the next month, you lose all your gains). You also have different climates, which breeds different cultures, which breeds different artificial selection pressures, etc etc. There are very subtle inherent differences between people from different societies which aren’t very apparent at the individual level, and can totally be overwritten by the social conditioning of a multicultural society, but these differences compound when they group together in the millions. This is insanely taboo to say in modern society, people want to pretend like we can override all differences with kum ba yah and social conditioning, but human nature is an iron law. Blood is thick.


Many more things I wanted to talk about while walking coco, dammit I forgot what.


Justin made a great point of interest rates not going down, despite asset prices being high, so if people want to buy houses cars business loans student loans, they’re still high but interest rates high while wages stagnate = not a great time for society. 


9/18/25
The best thing you can do for yourself is realize our post war era is a facade and break out of the beliefs, worldviews, and culture of the society and era of history you live in. 


Human civilization like everything else, has inputs and outputs. You have mass and energy and when you do good stuff with it you have an abundant functioning society, if you do the wrong stuff with it you get a scarce disfunctional society. Inputs, a system does things with said inputs, and then you get an output. Human civilization is no different.


If the people in the past reliably believed the stuff their society in that era of history taught them in face value, like the Roman’s believing in ancestor worship then we today believe in things our society and our modern era of history tells us at face value. Break out of the beliefs of your society and era of history. 


Democracy
Capitalism
Freedom
Everyone is equal
            * If we know evolution worked because some organism had traits better suited for the environment than others, then that principle must still exist today. Some people have traits, by luck, that is better suited for urbanized industrialized societies than others, so some do better than others. This doesn’t just work on the individual level but on races, which are different and experienced different selection pressures
There is no differences in people


The past doesn’t matter. 


History is a real world dataset of how human interacted in societies. Do not tell other people or societies how to live their lives and what to believe in if you do not have a good data set to derive those values from. It’s not that your architecture, algos, or compute is bad, you just don’t have the data. 


On a civilizational scale people are throwing tantrums because they don’t want to do their chores. I don’t wanna take out the trash, I don’t wanna clean my room, I don’t wanna do the dishes. That’s what people sound like when they say they don’t want to arrest criminals, enforce social standards, and prevent degeneracy, elite overproduction, etc. If you don’t clean your room you’ll have a messy house and civilization today are really freaking messy right now.


American society was born out of a direct rejection of ing George III, the British monarchy, and just the European monarchical system as a whole. There is no king, there is a plurality of power, the people can vote, the people can have guns, the people will have freedom of speech, we hate the British monarchy and we hate kings. The modern era is a direct rejection of the factors that led to WW1 and ww2. Nationalism is bad, masculinity is bad, one group of people are not superior to others, and there is no inherent differences between peoples (so don’t genocide them plz). In the same way, a great deal of Judaism, the beliefs of the old testimate of the ancient Israelites are a direct rejection of the beliefs of the bronze world age. There is one god, not many. The king is not a god, god is above the king. Time is not cyclical or mystical, it is linear. These are really important social technologies that we take for granted today. before every city or village had a god, the river had a god, and also meant people would fight over who’s god is better. Having one omnipotent god means there is now 1 source of truth, which laid the foundations of science since the laws of physics is one source of truth that does not change. It does not matter how smart you are, if your entire society, and everyone else’s society and the ideas you’ve heard since you were a child kept saying there are multiple gods, multiple sources of truth, that changes. Then your pshcyology and worldview prevents you from reaching the right conclusion that there is 1 law of physics, a very smart person would use their cognitive horsepower on the wrong framework. That is something to be wary of today and why you have tk break free of the ideas, culture, and worldview of the society and era of history you live in. Anyways, that one idea of 1 god is very important to Christianity and Europe and catholic church and this modern science. God is above the king. This was a counterweight to excessive power the king had. If the king was a god, no one can tell the god when he was wrong. So now that god is above the king, and god has his own set of rules and principles (that was smart people set up to be good systems and institutions that makes a society run well) that the king must follow. So if the king is messing up, (maybe not a peasant) but a noble or prince or someone with power can tell the king he is messing up, and not lose his head, because the noble is just the messenger, just reminding the king of gods will, which is above the king. This is an amazing social and psychological mechanism for error correction and establishes a feedback loop.  Time is linear. The Bronze Age societies had fertility cults, thought time was an endless cosmic cycle and that order came from reenacting those cosmic stories. The Bible starts with genesis, the beginning of everything and ends with revelations, the end of everything. It establishes a beginning and an end, that time is linear. 


Sorry, you can’t be as degenerate as you want, you can’t be as hedonistic as you want, what you do in the present literally affects your descendants with epic genetic marks, societies have standards and traditions for good reasons(occasionally questioning them is good btw). You have a responsibility to your society, to yourself, and your descendants. Stop acting like a spoiled child and do your chores. If you don’t then your civilization will slowly die or be conquered by someone else. And if you are okay with that, then you are my enemy. 


The teenagers and young men and women at Stanford, Harvard, etc from wealthy elite families need to understand that they are elites. Constantly downplaying or ignoring your “privilege” is dangerous and childish. You are from an elite family, you are an elite aspirant, you are responsible for society and if you do it wrong and civilization dies, it is largely your fault because civilizations have always been mostly determined by the actions of its elites. So do not downplay your responsibility, you are an up and coming elite and you must be properly educated and properly groomed to lead your civilization well. Downplaying privilege is dangerous because you are abdicating your social responsibilities and leaders and rulers. Sorry, you gotta do your chores too. When civilizations degrade or die, people die from civil war and social unrest, people become poor and slide to poverty, families are broken, people overdose on drugs, crime becomes rampant, the environment gets worse. These are all indirectly your fault because civilizations have almost always lived and died by the actions of its elites. I like being rich I like having power, but I also don’t want to see my neighborhood burn down. So go ahead, pursue wealth pursue power to keep up with family expectations or your social circles, but do what you can to do your small part to be a net positive for your society.


Humans have been evolutionarily bred to adhere to authority, so there will always be elites, elite aspirants, and the general population. If this is an underlying principle, then the elites must be educated and properly trained to become the shepards of their society. If they fail and inevitably fail their duties, then new elites rise and take their place through merit. That’s why it’s important for elites to maintain the rails of new elite production, to keep things iterative which means having a pluralistic society. The thing that always happens is the elites try to cut out new elite aspirants and consolidate their power, which never works long term, and society crashes out. The new elites must know that their end of the social contract is: they get all the wealth power prestige but they always understand that they will inevitably grow decadent, degenerate, and greedy and will need to experience iteration and new elites amongst their ranks, so keep society plural and prevent gatekeeping so that new elites can come in. That’s the contract. Like ratatouille, not everyone can be a great chef, but a great chef can come from anywhere.


Someday I’ll write about the insane paradigm shift that has happened don’t he United States. From wokeness to the conservatism wave today. The woke culture hit its peak in 2020 and has been growing weak, but something happened in 2024 when Trump won, it was almost like a banner went up saying “conservative culture is in charge now, it’s now okay for mainstream culture to be conservative” and it just flipped a switch in everyone’s brain. This is a phenomenon akin to when a foreign invader comes in takes over the country and flip goes off that these people are now in charge. Probably exists due to evolutionary selection pressures of war and conquest. It’s also the same with the mental shift that China is a stronger country than the United States and that the west is degenerating fast and fallen from status. These mental shifts are felt by everyone but no one really talks about it out loud. Everyone knows western civilization is falling and China has risen. People will look in hindsight that 2023-2025 is around the time China became a stronger civilization than the United States and when eastern civilizations began to become more socially, politically, technologically, and industrially more important to the world than western civilization. 


The optimal architecture of the world for now is a plurality of powers and iteration. Eastern civilization competes with western civilization competes with whoever comes next. Within each civilizations each country competes within each other. Plurality of power. Iteration. Forced through constant competition and no one player becoming too dominant. This is how we increase the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs to eventually free ourselves of our evolutionary biology and build civilizations throughout the universe. 


The biggest reason why people don’t have kids (for existing married couples) is because it is indeed expensive. Couples spend more than half their income on rent, or they are super busy with their work schedules and can’t even find much time to spend time together, married couples are being squeezed economically. It just sucks. So different issues, why people aren’t dating, why couples aren’t staying in relationships and getting married, and why married people aren’t having children. It’s just insane, culture may play a part, but it is mostly economical and an emergent behavior, possibly deeply rooted in our evolutionary biology, to just shut down reproduction numbers when we approach carrying capacity of our systems, institutions, etc. It’s so just so hard for the average married couple right now. Human instinct for all of human history was to procreate in large numbers, so if we are not, then something is getting in the way. 


I am the most creative, inventive, and down to earth I’ll ever be right now. I won’t get these years back, try to make the most of them. 


9/11/25
You know, the big losers of today’s world are the normies. People who get up in the morning, drive to work, work, drive back home from work, eat, hang out, then sleep then do it all over again for the majority of days of their lives for another person’s goals. Again the problem isn’t that you are working hard, that is a pleasure, the worst part is that you are doing it for someone else, to build someone else’s name. That is the great shame. I was driving back home from Irvine stuck in traffic, and I just thought, I can’t believe some people have to do this everyday. Everyday, like cattle (me included), they live largely monotonous, meaningless lives. NPCs sent to go work for their masters and maintain society while the players, the ones who are truly alive, have the world as their playground. The normies fight and crawl over each other for the opportunity to be a player’s sellsword. If you are smart and work hard eventually you can become the most expensive, valuable cavalry sellsword, but youre still a sellsword dependant on a player to pick you up from the tavern. If you want to win the economics game, you likely have to build your own enterprise. Now, in that same analogy, if you want to actually be useful for civilization, to be a player on a civilizational level, genuinely influencing the course of history and participating in what really matters, then you likely have to be the leader of a civilization. Beating the economic game means making your own company. Being useful in the story of human history means taking charge of a country. Even the CEOs and wealthy businessmen are NPCs and normies in the scale of human history. There were many successful traders and merchants in the past, what do we care about them today. They were like everyone else, they lived and died, they just happened to live more comfortable lives and have more toys. What truly matters now, and arguably what has always mattered, is organizing mass and energy in ways that increase humanity’s scientific, productive, and human well being outputs. Getting us out of this rock and expanding throughout the universe. That is what matters. Break humanity out of its evolutionary biological systems and becoming truly enlightened and knowing true freedom. Do this so we no longer have to operate like monkeys, so we can make sound and good decisions instead of operating on this thin facade of civility. Lets have an objective function and maniacally chase it. The first local optimum we broke was getting out of solo survival into tribes. The second local optimum we broke was becoming intelligent. The third broken local optimum is grouping from tribes to civilizations. Then in the fourth local optimum we broke out of was industrialization and the pursuit of science and logic. The fifth? It’s becoming free of the constraints of our evolutionary biology, enhancing ourselves, then we pursue the objective function, then embark on true interstellar colonization. I am constrained by my evolutionary biology and the era of history I live in today. 99% of all mass, energy, and efforts today are used to fulfill our immediate biologically demanded wants. The desire to mate, the desire to conquer, the desire for more, the desire of safety and power. 99% of all the mass and energy and labor are dedicated to these immediate things. Including me. When humanity is finally free of these things and we finally are able to choose if we want to mate, if we want to conquer, if we want more, if we want safety and power,  if we want to be smarter, if we want to be stronger. It will all be a choice. That is a whole new era of humanity, when we suddenly realize we don’t have to conform and be cucks. Then we will make the logically sound decision to pursue a higher goal, whatever we define it, and I know mine will be to increase the scientific, productive, and human well being and build civilizations that spans galaxies. That’s what I was put on this Earth to do by the way, to build civilizations. If I don’t do it, someone else won’t do it for a long time, and we may be stuck in our current local optima for a long time. I have to win, so human civilization can win, because the universe is probably not empty and you want to carry a big stick incase they haven’t gotten rid of their evolutionary biology. (or you know what, even if you do get out of your evolutionary biology, there can still be conflict between species.) The new industrial revolution is upon us, ai and robotics will infact eventually change everything, and soon we will have the opportunity for super abundance and the intelligence to enhance ourselves however we want. Maybe then we can drive expansion out of our planet not out of desperation or because we were forced to, but because we wanted to. Humanity will break out of the current local optimum, we will enhance ourselves and be free, will advance, and then we will colonize the universe. 


Over time we have developed mechanisms to have groups of people change their own civilization. This came through legal systems, democracy, parliament, capitalism, markets, and companies. People can get together and build a product that will change the world in some ways, however, there is no mechanism for people to get together and build a culture or ideology that will change the world through spirit, culture, worldview, perspective, and behavior. It’s not just technology, science, and engineering that separates us from the ancient Egyptians you know, its also culture, behavior, worldviews, morals and such. How can such changes be made to pave the way to break through the next local optimum? How can you change the way people think and behave to build a better world? This is the true goal of MIRAE OPUS. At first it will seem like a toy company, then it will seem like an ai and robotics company, then it will be obvious that it is actually a mechanism to change the way we think and behave to break through the next local optimum, so that we may be free and build civilizations throughout the universe. 
MIRAE OPUS, the work of the future.


/////////////////////////////////////////




Civilization, like anything else, has inputs, the inputs are put into the system, and the system produces outputs. Over the course of human history, so many people thought so many things were important. What tangibly mattered, was how well your society performed in its scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. These are what differentiates the hunter-gatherer societies, ancient Egyptians, the Romans, and the pre-industrial age to today. 


The nation that produced lots of food, a lot of materials, and great organizational structure often made great cities, generated great science and culture, and great armies. With these it would outcompete its neighbors in the same region and maybe if they were great enough, dominate whole swaths of the continent. History has been about who can organize mass & energy into the right system conducive for the best armies, the best cities, the best culture, the best whatever that is needed to make the civilization strong. When we try to understand why notable civilizations like the ancient Egyptians, Chinese, and Romans became great there must be a confluence of variables in play. It wasn’t just geography, genetics, or randomness. There must be a concise set of inputs that led to the output. There must be some confluence of factors, each weighted differently, that all interact with each other condensing into some value(s) where, after surpassing a certain threshold, that civilization becomes great. Sometime during our lifetime, an insidious idea settles in that civilization just exists and it’ll always be there. This is not true. A lot of people over a long period of time had to work really hard to build the civilization we get to enjoy right now and if the right inputs are not maintained, then the output will be the fall of your civilization. This is what happens to a society that becomes too successful for too long. It forgets everything that made it great in the first place, then the people become decadent and degenerate, and then the civilization declines then falls. This has happened to almost every civilization in human history and is what’s happening to Western civilization right now. It rose during the 1500s, industrialized and hit its zenith in the 1800s, then begun its decline after WW1 and WW2, and have been in stagnation/decline since then. (Obviously, this doesn’t fit America’s timeline but now it too is in decline) Its the classic story of the poor kid works hard, makes it big, then his children become spoiled brats and spends daddy’s money, then by the time the grandkids come around the family is broke and learns that money is hard to earn and harder to keep. This principle works exactly the same way for civilizations. It is absolutely essential, for the good of civilization, for its population and elites to have it seared onto their brains and embedded into the culture, that their civilization will degenerate and die if they don’t uphold the civilizational inputs that keep it running well. Neglecting history, anthropology, and human nature in the education systems is foolish, young adults are sent out into society essentially blind, accelerating civilizational decline. Civilization, like anything else, has inputs and outputs. If you provide the wrong inputs, the output is civilizational decline. But if you provide the right inputs and most importantly, maintain those right inputs for long periods of time, the output is a great civilization. 
        It’s useful to view society, civilization, and human history as a system of understandable and measurable inputs and outputs instead of this mysterious, random black box most of us mentally frame it as. The inputs are mass & energy and the output we want is a better civilization and that consists of some optimal level of scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Our civilizations today are far superior to the ones thousands of years ago by every conceivable metric. Our technology is far more advanced, we have far more material comforts, fewer wars, ½ of our children aren’t dying by the time they’re 18, etc. What’s the difference between the ancient Chinese, the Romans, and medieval Europe to China, Italy, and Europe today? Human nature is the same, the genetics are the same, the geography and climate are the same, even the culture is fundamentally the same. The main difference between our civilizations is the level of science, production, and human well-being. Electricity, air conditioning, medicine, and computers are pretty nice. So are the mines, refineries, and factories that mass produce these technologies into usable form. These things are what really constitutes progress. When we say humanity has advanced from its stone age past, we are really talking about the differences in these three outputs. As for human well-being, the average person’s life, at least in the developed world, is unbelievably better than before. Back then, the average peasant had no weekend, bent down, planted seeds, and harvest crops by hand sun up to sun down, lived at a subsistence level, rarely ate meat, ½ of your children died before reaching 18, very little social mobility, your occupation was predetermined at birth, constant uncurable diseases killing friends and family, the random drafting of sons and fathers to war, the occasional barbarian or invading army killing your entire village, raping all the women, and selling the survivors into slavery. I mean, it just wasn’t a great time for the average person. The average human well-being today is far, far better. Also, history shows that whenever the general population reaches a certain threshold of unhappiness, that society experiences revolutions and civil wars, nullifying many of the gains in the scientific and productive outputs. The Industrial Revolution was great for civilization’s scientific and productive outputs, but how beneficial is it to civilization really if its people are working 16 hours a day, 6 days a week in awful working conditions. There is a direct inverse relationship between how hard the individual works/gets paid and the performance of the larger organism. Imagine if all the cells in your body suddenly wanted fewer work hours and increased pay, that would greatly hurt you the larger organism. Ultimately, civilizations are for human beings and maintaining good human well-being is a moral good. There is some optimal balance between the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. However, note that the output is human well-being, not necessarily human happiness. It’s possible to hook people up into machines directly manipulating the biochemistry in the brain to emit the happiness emotions and lock them up in a box. That would just be maximizing the happiness outputs, not genuine human well-being. This is probably the most vague civilizational output since human well-being, under human nature today, encompasses happiness, community, physical and mental satisfaction, sense of purpose, sense of accomplishment, a belief system, a healthy self concept and self confidence, a degree of self reliability and independence, etc. The goal is to improve civilization and that is done by improving civilization’s scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs.
By setting the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs as the clear goal, it’s much easier to gauge what the system should do with what inputs. What is the best way to get our mass & energy and what should we do with them to get the outputs we want? That’s what civilization is, a mechanism that configures and organizes mass & energy into systems best suited to produce the optimal civilizational outputs. Determining what systems and institutions are best for society, is a question humanity has been iteratively trying to answer for all of human history. Every government, political & economic system, religion, philosophy, and culture ever implemented was that society’s attempt at answering that question. Individuals learned to work together, form tribes, form civilizations, social structures, taxes, bureaucracy, religion, a professional army,  markets, trade, Confucianism, feudalism, capitalism, monogamy, the Catholic Church, separation of powers, democracy, academia, etc. These are all experiments our species conducted within their respective societies, whether consciously or subconsciously, to find new local optimas for organizing mass & energy into systems and institutions that might help the society survive and reproduce. Evolution isn’t strictly for biological organisms. If you look at a tree map of different civilizations throughout history, it looks similar to an evolutionary tree. Civilizations developed traits, tested them in the real world, and would adapt them to better fit their environment and compete with other civilizations. The civilizations with better traits survived, beat its competition in the area, and reproduced. The civilizations who developed deficient traits, died off or were conquered, and did not reproduce their culture and society. Whether a civilization develops capitalism and free markets or an organism develops a heart and circulatory system, in the end they do the same thing, organize mass & energy into systems and institutions to help the larger entity survive and compete. 
        A civilization’s systems and institutions are arguably the most important component to a civilization’s performance and trajectory. China had a powerful Confucian bureaucracy where government posts were the elite positions and only achieved by doing well on imperial exams. These scholarly elites actively scorned the merchant class. Merchants were ranked lowest in the social hierarchy, below scholars, farmers, and artisans. The excuse was that merchants don’t produce anything, just move things around,  but really it was envy and fear. Some merchants became extremely wealthy and held considerable influence, posing a threat to the bureaucracy. Yet, for most merchants their ultimate goal was often to move their family into the scholar official class over generations. They often aspired to leave trade behind and elevate their family's social status through the imperial exam. Eventually, it became that the main outlets for smart, competitive, ambitious children were confined to the bureaucracy, scholarly works, or military. This leads to a basic civilizational principle: when a dominant force has no real rival to compete with, it starts doing stupid stuff. (Of course the aristocrats competed with each other and the emperor and there were eunuchs, but they were all within the same bureaucracy, sort of like Democrat and Republican politicians being part of the same bureaucracy.) In the early 1400s, Admiral Zheng He led massive treasure fleets on diplomatic and trade missions across the Indian Ocean under the Yongle Emperor. After Yongle’s reign, the Confucian bureaucrats, who were deeply skeptical of maritime trade, gained power and stopped the voyages by the mid 1400s. The Ming court issued haijin (sea bans), which restricted private maritime trade and criminalized overseas travel. They even went as far as burning ships and dismantling shipyards. Compare this to Europe and what led to their Age of Exploration. Although European states had bureaucracy, they were in constant competition with all the other European powers. Spain would’ve never burned their ships because that’d mean those darn Portuguese, Ottomans, and English would take your share of the seas and make themselves wealthier and more powerful than you with the trade routes you used to own. European kings and bureaucrats too held disdain against their merchant class going as far back as the Middle ages, but it was better to work with them than letting those damned French take all the gold for themselves. The ruling elites were forced to work with merchants out of pragmatism to finance wars and collect taxes. Through intercompetition, it turned out the ability to raise and sustain financial resources increasingly determined military success. States had to adapt and develop new traits such as charter monopolies, mercantilism, and banking to survive. The states that developed the better traits beat the local competition and became dominant while the states that didn’t became weak. The entire history of Europe can be described as a never ending competition to find ways to one-up another. China did not have this dynamic. When they were unified, there was no one in the area that could challenge them so they could afford to do ridiculous things like shut down the entire merchant class, burn the entire merchant fleet, and ban everyone from sailing. The Dutch East India company (VOC 1602 - 1799) didn’t just randomly appear one day when a bunch of guys at a bar had the bright idea of shipping spices. The Dutch government actively wanted to break the Iberian monopoly on spices and Asian goods (Spain and Portuguese briefly united 1580 - 1640). Before the VOC, there were dozens of competing Dutch merchant companies, all trying to trade with Asia. They undercut each other, inflated prices, and weakened Dutch bargaining power. The Dutch government merged them into one mega company to unify strategy, reduce competition, and strengthen naval presence. The VOC, the first "modern" joint-stock company, and the world’s first stock exchange were both formed in 1602 to compete with the Iberians. Dutch civilization developed this new trait as an adaptation for survival, discovering a new local optimum in commerce. It’s similar to the Arctic fish that developed antifreeze proteins to prevent its blood from freezing in subzero temperatures, discovering a new local optimum in Arctic survival. Under this new arrangement of systems and institutions, the Dutch people became one of the wealthiest societies in the world for a while. This is a fine example of labor and resources organized into systems and institutions that optimized the scientific, productive, and human well-being for the Dutch people. A great civilizational net positive act by the Dutch government.


Other notable historical examples showing how organizing labor and resources into the right systems and institutions makes all the difference:


China’s Path To Industrialization:
        During the Han (200 BC - 200 AD), Tang (618 AD - 907 AD) and Song (960 AD –1279 AD) dynasties China had iron blast furnaces and mass produced steel. The Chinese used water powered bellows (water mills) for mechanical movement and coke (coal with impurities removed) or charcoal to fuel the blast furnaces. By the Song dynasty they easily had the world’s most advanced and largest iron and steel industry. They were centuries, if not a thousand years ahead, yet the Europeans caught up and industrialized first in the 1700s - 1800s. It sounds like China already had all of the prerequisites for an industrial revolution around 1000 AD: an excess workforce, large domestic consumption, advanced metallurgy, water power machinery, coal mining, advanced markets, and trade networks. Historians have wrestled with this for decades. The explanations may not be conclusive, but still useful when pieced together. The glaringly obvious culprit, the bureaucracy, just like with the treasure fleets, shut down private iron production during the Ming dynasty. Iron was considered too dangerous to be in the hands of merchants or private citizens because it could be used to make weapons. Blast furnaces were dismantled or banned in many regions. Confucian bureaucrats viewed ironworking and profit seeking as low status occupations and discouraged technological progress in industries seen as morally questionable or destabilizing. The Ming prioritized agriculture, centralized state control, social harmony, and stability. Other arguments from Chinese academics: China didn’t need machines because cheap and abundant labor worked well enough. Industrialization requires capital intensive development, which wasn’t economically necessary or efficient in historical China. Confucianism prioritized moral cultivation and social harmony over technological experimentation. China actually did have a proto-industrial economy, but lacked the energy and technological revolution that happened in Europe. Whatever the real reasons were, Chinese civilization did not organize labor and resources into the right systems and institutions to facilitate an Industrial Revolution. Again, there must be some confluence of factors, each weighted differently, all interacting with each other condensing into some value(s) where, if it surpasses a certain threshold, the civilization industrializes and develops. China finally hit that threshold and started industrializing a few years after Deng Xiaoping’s reforms in 1978, 2 years after Mao finally died. The reforms basically introduced capitalism and free markets. It legalized private businesses, private ownership, moved away from central planning to market based pricing, reopened universities, opened up China to foreign direct investment, replaced collective farming with private family based farming contracts, etc. Within 47 years it went from a poor agrarian state to one of the most powerful states in the world on par, if not exceeding the United States in economic and military might. After thousands of years, China industrialized only after organizing its labor and resources into the right systems and institutions that optimized the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Granted, the west was already industrialized and China had someone to learn from, but they still didn’t industrialize from 1912 - 1978 because they still didn’t have the right systems and institutions then. A mere stroke of a pen, a few paragraphs on a piece of paper signed by the right people, and a billion people rose out of poverty. That’s not an exaggeration either. China now vs China before had the exact same genetics, the exact same geography, and the exact same land and resources under their feet. Quite literally the only difference was how people in that civilization decided to organize themselves into systems and institutions (and a burning desire to rise out of poverty). Imagine if China never implemented capitalism and free markets. Today there’d be some malnutritioned child picking rice from a field, wondering why things have to be so shitty, why things are this way. Imagine finding out the only thing between your shitty life and wealth were a couple of guys getting together and signing the right paragraphs on a piece of paper into law.


England’s Path To Industrialization:
        Despite China’s 500 year headstart, England was the first to industrialize in the 1700s and 1800s because their systems and institutions allowed it to reach the industrialization threshold a lot earlier. There were many factors that allowed England to break through the threshold, but there were two notable keys to England’s success: a competing plurality of powers and statutory patents. To explain the first key, in stark contrast to the relatively unrivaled Chinese bureaucracy, England’s power structure was divided between the monarchy, Parliament, nobility, the Church, and towns. Something about the English character made them exceptional in how early and how far it went in limiting monarchical power and institutionalizing representative government. This plurality of competing powers, likely reinforced by the individualistic European character, slowly built up beneficial civilizational traits such as limiting royal authority and building up the legitimacy of Parliament through hundreds of years (From the Magna Carta 1215 to the Glorious Revolution 1688 - 1689). These are such rare anomalies in human history. Few societies developed enduring, formal mechanisms like these before the modern era. As for the Church and its influence, most people don’t digest how powerful the Catholic Church was during this era. It was the most powerful institution in Europe for a thousand years, from the fall of the Western Roman Empire (476) to the rise of the Spanish Empire (1500s). It was the largest landowner in Europe, at one point holding 25% - 30% of all land in Western Europe and collected tithes from many Christians. It acted as a protectorate of society’s collective psychological health, influencing all aspects of life from daily prayer, baptism, morality, and marriage. It crowned and legitimized kings and intervened in politics. It had its own legal code and courts, its priests and monks were immune from secular law, and formed its own inquisition to combat heresy. The Catholic Church’s role in shaping Europe can not be understated. 


Catholic Church Tangent: 
One of the most egregious misconceptions entrenched in modern culture is the idea that the Catholic Church was detrimental to Europe’s development. That without the Catholic Church, science and technology would’ve emerged hundreds of years earlier. This is so comically false that at this point, one is left questioning the character of the Renaissance & Enlightenment men who spread this absurd, insidious lie. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the Catholic Church kept literacy, education, and science going in Europe during the Dark Ages. Literacy was so rare, most nobles and kings were illiterate and depended on church scribes and monks. King Charlemagne (742 - 814) only learned to read as an adult through deliberate effort but still never learned to write. Monasteries and cathedral schools preserved classical Greek and Roman texts and even introduced Arabic science and philosophy into Europe. It founded or sponsored most of Europe’s first universities, by 1500 over 80 universities existed in Europe and most were Church affiliated (although they largely operated independently). The Church was a patronage of science, funding astronomical observatories, promoting scientific education, physics, and mathematics. Early scientists were literally part of the Catholic clergy or trained by the Church including Roger Bacon, who promoted strong empirical research through observation and experimentation and Copernicus, who developed the Heliocentric theory. It was even the main welfare provider before modern governments, providing hospitals, orphan care, food & shelter for the poor and travelers. The Catholic Church’s single most important legacy is ensuring the birth of the Scientific Revolution by making disciplined inquiry into the natural world theologically legitimate. God created the world, therefore studying the world is worshiping God. God is rational, therefore the world he built must operate with underlying truths that could be discovered and understood. These tenants eventually led to the Scientific Revolution which laid the foundation of the modern world we all enjoy today. The fact that the most powerful institution in Europe actively encouraged building ideas through empirical and objective observations meant no matter the political or economic landscape, no matter what some king said or what the popular idea was at the time, the belief that the world can be logically understood was anchored onto the soul of European intellectuals for a thousand years. There’d be little scientific discussion during the Renaissanc and Enlightenment years if the Catholic Church did not give science its blessings. If the Church persecuted scientists and the Inquisition deemed them heretics, that sentiment would’ve trickled down to the kings, nobility, and then the commoners of Europe. The entire European culture, which was intricately woven with religion, would not have been conducive to the scientific output. The importance of institutional religious support for science is further reinforced by seeing what happened to the Islamic world during their Golden Age, but more on that later. The Catholic Church was unequivocally a net positive institution for Europe’s scientific output.


Anyways, so yes, the Catholic Church was a serious competing force in English society, along with the monarchy and nobility. Along with these, towns also held notable power in English society due to the strength of the merchant class, capitalism, and Parliament. Towns functioned as corporate hubs whose fiscal indispensability and parliamentary representation made them a structural counterweight to the centralized ambitions of monarchy, the landed dominance of the nobility, and the ecclesiastical hierarchy of the Church. Many English towns had direct parliamentary representation for centuries, and the more substantial and autonomous among them actively lobbied to shape legislation, taxation, trade policy, and religious settlement. The monarchy, nobility, Parliament, Church, and towns, these made up the competing plurality of powers in England. Now to England’s 2nd key to success, the statutory patents. These intercompeting powers gave England a dynamic political and economic landscape preventing any single institution from holding too much power over society like the Chinese bureaucracy did. These competing institutions were then incentivized to build strong legal systems to mediate issues between themselves. Rather than a centralized legal machine, it was a network of interlocking jurisdictions generating predictable and fair adjudication according to the rule of law, not the whims of kings and nobles. England’s distinction was that even the most powerful institutions and elites had to follow along with the law to a much higher degree than the rest of Europe. This new trait allowed England to break out of the local optimum the rest of Europe was plateauing into. 
The landscape of commerce in 16th and 17th century Europe were crowns granting exclusive charters to privileged companies to organize certain high‑risk, long‑distance valuable trades (spices, furs, sugar, slaves) to compete with other European state champions, while most domestic intra‑European commerce still ran through competitive markets, guild systems, and regional merchants although they still faced commodity monopolies. In England, enterprises like the East India Company had exclusive trade rights with India and Southeast Asia and commodities like salt, iron, soap, glass, coal, vinegar, cards, starch, and tin were all monopolies granted by the monarchy. This squeezed out smaller merchants and traders, centralized capitalism, stifled innovation, set prices artificially high, and was a contributing factor to the English Civil War (1642-1651). This local optimum in commerce allowed your state champion to compete with other European state champions on various grounds like the East Indies spice trade or building plantations in the Americas. It was great for monarchies since anyone who wanted to do serious business needed the king’s favor. However, this came at the expense of change and iteration. Inventors and innovators needed the crown’s approval to commercialize their machines, greatly hampering the pace of improvement. Imagine today if the only way to commercialize your new product was through the explicit grace of the president or congress. The overseas trading companies may have adopted sailing and navigation innovations because they were competing with each other, but within local markets there were few incentives to build better machines since legalized monopolies blocked out new entrants to commodity markets. Even if inventors and innovators wanted to work with monopolies, there was no legal protection preventing companies from stealing the designs and not paying the original creator a dime. There were just layers and layers of entrenched elite interests fiercely protecting their share of various markets. At a civilizational level, these dynamics were not a good set of systems and institutions for the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs for the entire European continent.
The English jurist, judge, and politician Edward Coke (1552 -1634) famously despised these monopolies and centralized power. He campaigned to subject the English crown to law and was hugely influential in forming the Statute of Monopolies (1624), laying the foundations of the statutory patent system. The Statute of Monopolies is when centuries of plurality and competition finally came to bear fruit. It declared almost all existing commodity monopolies void (overseas charter companies were exempt for national strategic reasons), banned the crown from granting monopolies in the future, gave courts the authority to police monopolies, and carved out the legal system’s right to grant patents up to 14 years to the “true and first inventor” of novel inventions that provided some improvement or utility. This was a truly novel and critical social innovation. England was the first society to legally recognize ideas as personal property and enforce them through an impartial legal system. Before, most patents were issued by the monarchy, often requiring a high level connection, bribes, favors, or lobbying. Statutory patents, however, were issued and enforced through the legal system and courts. This critical distinction meant a low born peasant from the most remote region of England can come up with a new invention and without any permission from the monarchy, file a patent with the legal system, and no other entity, not the king, not the nobles, not the Church, no one else can steal that idea from him. With this change in the English system, inventors and innovators can now become entrepreneurs and profit from their own inventions. Granted, the statutory system was not great at first, often being inadequate and expensive. While it did have some ironing out to do, ultimately the new patent system brought England much closer to the industrialization threshold. If there was a bar between 0 to 100 where 80 was the threshold for the Industrial Revolution, removing the monopolies gave +20, the statutory patent system gave +15, strong legal system +10,  the Agricultural Revolution greatly increasing farm productivity freeing excess labor for factories +5, accessible coal +5, the entrepreneurial spirit and individuality of the English people +5, and all the other factors +20 (shipping infrastructure, rivers, open markets, etc). Together, these factors brought England to the Industrial Revolution threshold, breaking humanity through the previous pre-industrial local optimum. 
Thomas Savery’s engine, invented and patented in 1698, pumped water out of coal mines and became the first commercially successful steam power device. Thomas Newcomen’s atmospheric steam engine (1712) improved on Savery’s design, implementing pistons and cylinders, and pumped more water out of deeper mines (notice the dates 1698 and 1712 are exactly 14 years apart, the patent expiration date). By the 1750s a small heartbeat of an Industrial Revolution was forming. Since society distributed decision making and hard working, intelligent people didn’t need high level connections to make new inventions there was an early flowering. There was growth in the textiles, ironworks, and metal works industry. Water wheels became widely used. Early canal building began to link industrial centers then banks and joint-stock companies started to support business expansion. By 1776 Boulton & Watt installed and operated their first steam engine, dramatically improving Newcomen’s design. 


Funny enough, even after the invention of more advanced steam engines, water wheels were still better for awhile, so many thought the best use case for steam engines would be pumping water upstream to later flow through a water wheel. Water wheels actually remained cheaper, easier to maintain, had no fuel costs, and more efficient than steam engines until the early 1800s. Similar dynamic with horse drawn power, although they were replaced earlier than water wheels.


The patent systems allowed these men to invent a machine or improve a previous design, financiers assured by the patent’s legal protections felt confident enough to invest capital, factories were built, products were sold to open markets, and people got rich. 


Important caveat: Plenty of inventors didn’t patent and relied on secrecy, speed to market, or custom contracts because they were still relatively expensive and complex. For example, inventors needed separate patents for England, Scotland, Ireland, not to mention the rest of Europe. Also, yes the vast majority of the raw materials the British used during the late 1700s came from its colonies. Indian cotton accounted for over 75% of British cotton imports by the late 1700s.


Over time, an ecosystem of these inventors, financiers, and industrialists emerged. Boulton & Watt wanted better and faster ways to make their engines and then John Wilkinson invented precision boring machines to make better cylinders for the steam boilers. Henry Maudslay developed true precision machine tools and interchangeable bolts and screws, unlocking more sophisticated machines for the entire industry (Henry spent ten years experimenting with different gears and tools perfecting a process to cut very accurate screw threads. There are many other stories of engineers spending years perfecting this one piece of machinery or process). Once people realized immense wealth was being made, inventors, financiers, and industrialists were quick to work together to make designs and build factories as fast as possible to meet a market demand before someone else did. This ecosystem and momentum is how, what could have been a series of one off inventions, turned into a full blown Industrial Revolution. There were plenty of incumbent powers negatively affected by the influx of cheap and abundant goods. They sued, lobbied Parliament, sabotaged progress, and burned down factories, but the plurality of powers and a strong legal system kept the momentum of the Industrial Revolution going. 


William Lee’s Story: Compare these inventors during this energetic time to William Lee, who had the misfortune of inventing the first stocking frame knitting machine in 1589. That same year he petitioned Queen Elizabeth I for a patent. She refused out of fear the machine would throw large numbers of poor knitters out of work (she wasn’t wrong). In 1598 he went back to the queen with a better design, she still refused. In 1601 he petitioned King Henry IV of France for a patent, he said yes, then William and his brother set up knitting workshops in Rouen. 1610 King Henry was assassinated, his successor Louis XIII (a 9 year old) and the new government withdrew support. It turned out without royal backing, the guilds blocked and slowed adoption of his knitting machines while others stole his designs. Also, there was no broad commercial ecosystem or industrial base to support mass textile production. Building, maintaining, and scaling these intricate machines became very expensive and his knitting workshops were never profitable even with royal backing. There was no ecosystem, no legal support, no energy or momentum. William was 150 years too early before society would become conducive for his machines. Eventually, his workshops closed down and died penniless in 1614.


The key benefit of a competing plurality of powers and statutory patents was giving individuals ways to break out of the current local optimum no matter how painful and disruptive it was to the status quo. Civilizations often run into this problem where it needs to enact change and adapt in order to improve or stave off disaster but human nature, the systems & institutions in place, and layers of entrenched interests all get in the way. We know the Industrial Revolution would be great for England but Queen Elizabeth didn’t want to displace her subjects, who were already living on sustenance wages, wide swaths of elites who invested into and benefited from monopolies would never willingly let them go, and guilds of skilled artisans and tradesmen (blacksmiths, weavers, carpenters, masons) would fight tooth and nail to protect their livelihoods (they held influence within local towns). What wealthy patron would invest in a factory for a machine that disrupts society unless there was some system and institution in place that could protect him from the aristocracy and guilds? What elite in their right mind would’ve let inventors, industrialists, and financeers irreversibly disrupt the entirety of English society? There was a 0% chance such large sweeping, uncontrollable change would’ve been approved by any elite governing body at the time. This was truly a unique time in history when individuals and enterprises, without any permission from the elites, can just make Spinning Jennys, water frames, and power looms and displace tens of thousands of workers despite the pushback from the established elites and guilds invested in the traditional cottage industry. They sued, lobbied Parliament, rioted, and burned down factories (Luddites) but the law held firm and by this time in English society, the courts were strong enough to enforce their decisions. This ability to have creative destruction is the iterative process and is a key element in forming the right systems and institutions to optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. The long standing struggle between powers gave enough room for figures like Edward Coke to squeeze in the Statute of Monopolies into law through a legal system that again, only emerged, strengthened, and became respected to mediate legal issues or alliances between the competing plurality of powers. 


It’s like a self reinforcing system, a competing plurality of powers form a legal system, over time the legal system strengthens so institutions can mediate conflicts or alliances between each other, and then that same legal system becomes a legitimate way for the organism that is English civilization to adapt to changes and iterate into new local optimums like statutory patents and strong legal systems, which helped it undergo the Industrial Revolution.


There is an argument that statutory patents increased the pressure to be profitable by forcing inventors to prove their invention's value in the marketplace quickly. Maybe if you are sponsored with a royal patent you’re not as focused on profitability as you can be. You’re flush with money, take things slow and steady, and kind of operate like a modern day government contractor. However, through private investment you better be profitable soon and it better work right away or you don’t get customers.


In summary, the Industrial Revolution was not a random occurrence, English society (without even knowing it) took a clear set of steps that led to the right organization of labor and resources into systems and institutions that greatly increased the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs of society (admitedly the human well-being component came much later). The English had a plurality of competing powers between the monarchy, nobility, Parliament, the Church, and towns which incentivized building a strong legal system over time. That same legal system allowed society to invent useful social technologies like statutory patents, separation of powers, and a culture that respects the rule of law. Through these social mechanisms, England was able to iterate and reach new local optimums by providing fertile grounds for private innovation and entrepeneurship free of encumbant elite interests. England iterated while the rest of Europe (and the world) did not, and leveled up into the British Empire. 


Is it any coincidence the same society that industrialized first became a global superpower? The sun never set on the British Empire by the late 19th century because their civilizational outputs, the scientific, productive and human well-being outputs earned them undisputed naval supremacy, a powerful army, a massive export economy, overseas colonies, control over trade, and dominance in global finance. They were also the 2nd to established a powerful central bank (Bank of England 1694), which was hugely important to England’s development and rise to power, but that’s another tangent for later.


Lets take stock of the main differences between the British Isles in 4000 BC and 1700 AD. The geography and climate were the same. The coal, iron, wood, and all the mass needed to make factories and steam engines were there. The laws of physics and human nature worked the same. Quite literally, the only difference is that a group of people settled the land and then organized themselves into the right systems & institutions that allowed them to learn how to dig up the right materials from the ground, arrange the atoms into the right structures, and then distribute them throughout their society to do useful work. Even when comparing 1000 AD to 1700 AD, the only thing stopping the Anglo-Saxons from industrializing were themselves. What England essentially did was increase their scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs by iterating through an intercompeting plurality of powers. Cheetahs competed with each other and Gazelles, and they all grew faster. Samsung and Apple competed with each other and the smartphones got better. There just seems to be this natural law where competing players force each other to iterate and improve. Of course, a plurality of power and competition are not the only ways to improve. Elon is the dictator of SpaceX and it has no real competition for its StarShip program, but they dramatically improved every part of it through an iterative process anyways. Whatever the methods, the key is to improve towards your objective function, and for civilizations that is to increase the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. 


The Iterative Method:
  

        
Lots of organisms lived out their every day lives not knowing their individual or collective decisions would inadvertently lead to different evolutionary paths that may or may not end up being beneficial for survival when the environment changes. The men who enacted the Magna Carta or Edward Coke with the Statute Of Monopolies weren’t doing these things to build modern society, they were doing what their human nature limbic systems thought was the good thing to do, then their consciousness rationalized it, and then acted upon it. Several hundred years later, it turned out these societal adaptations and traits of plural and distributed power and property rights were great in reaching the Industrial Revolution thresholds, and their descendants ever since lived great comfortable lives relative to the ones who didn’t. Although now the British people, especially the elites, are suffering from the successful-for-too-long syndrome and are now degenerate & decadent, and now actively declining as a society. They’re now actively attacking internet anonymity and suppressing speech the government deems hateful. Eventually they’ll hit a lowpoint, the young will realize the mistakes and enact changes one way or another, if successful they will have good times, but over generations will degenerate and become decadent again, and then repeat the cycle. We’ve done this for all of human history, are doing it now, and probably keep doing it under our current form of human nature. Thus, this story of our insane, blindly progressing, and tumultuous human history continues unchanged.  


Applications of The Prime Directive:
Accurate measurements of a civilization’s scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs act like gauges on a machine. It gives the reader accurate real time data on the state of society. Even more useful is measuring the delta, or the change, of these outputs over time. If the scientific and productive output this year was higher than last year, that’s great. But if at the same time, the human well-being output falls and is about to hit the lower bound of the tolerance range, civilization needs to fix it fast. Common issues when the human well-being’s lower tolerance level is breached includes revolution, civil war, and often regime change. 


The Tsars had the misfortune of dealing with The Russian Revolution of 1917 in the middle of WW1 (1914-1918). Russia industrialized late (1880s–1900s) under Tsarist autocracy. Workers lived in slums, worked 12-14 hour days, and barely made a living. The urban workers endured extreme exploitation, peasants remained poor and landless, while the elites kept most of the profit for themselves. Food shortages and military defeats from WW1 then pushed the peasants over the edge into open rebellion and the Bolsheviks took over. Oh, and this is when Russia adopted Communism (Marxism-Leninism) as a PTSD response to all the abuse it suffered over the years. It doesn’t take much to find dozens of more examples where low human well-being outputs caused problems for civilizations. 


Measuring the delta gives society the right mechanisms to pragmatically assess issues whenever they come up and apply the appropriate solution. If certain actors within society are actively and chronically decreasing the productive output, then some action must be taken to restore the lost productive output. If the human well-being outputs are rising, but the scientific and productive outputs are precipitously falling, then take action to boost the scientific and productive outputs. This framework just dumbs down complicated problems to much simpler terms. It’s a concept kids in elementary school could follow, yet Western Civilization would have greatly benefited had it used it decades ago. These are specific examples by the way: US corporations systematically offshored its industrial base for decades and American society just now realized what an awful idea that was. In fact, it’s finding out reindustrializing will be extremely hard because the knowledge and ecosystem to make the products and equipment are literally dying from old age. This dramatically decreased the productive output of the United States. This was a severe net negative event, but no one seriously cared to restore this lost productive output until recently, when the country realized the precarious position it’s in. The second example is about Europe and how they’re now a declining welfare state fading in their relevance to the world. The culture that built the modern world became carefree, detached, and indulged in overly generous social programs. European workers are known to take paid vacations for months at a time. This is great for human well-being (or not, depending how you see it) but awful for the productive and scientific outputs. Europe has fallen behind technologically and have also offshored its industrial base. The UK, the birthplace of the Industrial Revolution, is down to its last steel mill which is only alive because the government took control of it. Germany willingly blew up its nuclear power plants and became more dependent on Russian gas. There’s been a massive brain drain to the US, many of their great scientists and engineers work here because the money and opportunities are just better. The vast majority of the bleeding edge tech companies are in the United States and now emerging in China. Not to mention the insane regulatory bureaucracy that took over European institutions. These are severe net negatives to their scientific and productive outputs. Neither the United States nor Europe would have these issues if they made civilizational decisions based on optimizing the civilizational outputs.


Just last week Europe finalized their trade deal with the United States. It’s not popular to frame it as a vassal state paying tribute to a greater empire, but that’s exactly what this was. $750 billion in energy purchases from the US, $600 billion in investments to US markets. These are forced transfers of wealth. “Painful compromise”, surely not tribute payments. Same goes for many other US allies like Japan, Korea, Vietnam, etc who recently made trade deals. The polarization of the world combined with the financial degradation of the US means it will try to extract tribute from its vassals to help keep itself afloat.


        Of course, it's all obvious in hindsight. Solutions to most of these problems are not clear at the time, but the methodology to get better solutions is pretty obvious. Essentially, use scientific and engineering principles to iterate towards better civilizations. Have a design-test-learn feedback loop within civilizations either through the public or government (It might actually be borderline impossible to implement in existing governments, but play along with me here). Design systems and institutions, test it against reality for a period of time (probably at least a decade), collect data and measure the results, analyze if it was a net positive or net negative for the civilizational outputs, add changes and improve the systems and institutions, and iterate this process over and over again. The prime directive, which is the organization of labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well being outputs, is the reward function. This reward function acts like a compass that tells you whether each iterative cycle moved closer to the outcome you wanted. This is how SpaceX makes rockets, this is how evolution makes better organisms, this is how engineers make better systems, and so this can make better civilizations. The iterative method is a proven way to make things better and would be highly beneficial for humanity, if we ever get the chance to actually implement it (Looking at you, future ASI scrapping this document). Implicit within the iterative method are several key details. All laws have an expiration date. All legislation must explicitly state which civilizational outputs it’s trying to effect, clearly state what the parameters of success and failure looks like, how the data will be collected, and who should be held accountable with the law. 


A plurality of powers and iteration are essentially how the British industrialized first, if the earlier section wasn’t very clear. Without the English even knowing, they’ve created a set of systems and institutions (strong legal structures and plurality of powers) that allowed commoners to test their experiments with the real world despite pushback from other elites and the status quo. The industrialists/financeers had assurances from a legal system robust enough to facilitate an ecosystem to support enterprises that can constantly design/build/sell better machines profitably. They iterated through a plurality of powers. 


There is an open question why in the military a strict, almost draconian chain of command works (US military doctrine has it for officers to give orders on what needs to be done but not how, but it’s still strict) but in economics a strict chain of centralized command is a death sentence. Since the 1980s the doctrine of Mission Command has explicitly told commanders to specify what must be achieved and why, but leave the how to subordinates’ initiative. Probably because war is a RTS game, speed and adaptation to new information is weighted much more heavily in war so prioritize a strict but relatively quick chain of decision making.




Human Nature:
        If the “Prime Directive” section outlines how to improve human civilization logically, this section speculates on ways to coerce humans to act rationally. 


Origins Of Human Nature:
        As far as we know, this universe consists of properties presenting themselves as mass and energy, along with the laws governing how they interact with each other. When a structure of atoms becomes conducive to getting mass and energy, and uses them in ways to propagate itself, we call this phenomenon life. The reason why life, or anything at all, emerged is up to your personal belief. Whether through devine will or emergent properties, one way or another life emerged and the ones still here today concern themselves with survival and reproduction because the ones that didn’t, simply died out. Being at the right place at the right time to facilitate life, the Earth teemed with intercompeting species fighting for mass and energy to do useful things with them. All of the traits and characteristics our ancestors developed that were good enough to help us survive or weren’t bad enough to kill us off, were encoded onto our genes. This information and how they’re expressed is the most important contributor to your physical characteristics, including your brain. The evolutionarily derived atomic structures of your neurons and how they fire means human nature is largely hardware defined. If I’m seeing or hearing something, I literally can’t turn it off even if I wanted to. If the right emotional buttons are pressed, I literally wouldn’t be able to stop feeling love, fear, anger, or joy even if I wanted to. Some things are just hardwired within us. It would take an extreme amount of social conditioning or cultural discipline to go against your nature. We can suppress it, convince ourselves to ignore it, or not act on it, but we will always feel it to some degree. 
Somewhere down the line, our ancestors found out that working together in groups is pretty useful. Our defining evolutionary feature is the ability to work together in groups. This new local optimum from solitary to tribal life forced new selection pressures that shaped the social aspects of human nature.  Individual humans can’t compete with a group of humans in combat, so inevitably tribes won against individuals. We may have found uncontacted tribes or long lost survivalists, but we have never found an individual human solitary in nature like a bear or a leopard. There was almost certainly a difficult transition period where selfish survival instincts had to adapt to align with the well-being of the community. Over time, we became became incredibly social, hierarchical, submissive to authority, status-driven, tribal, empathetic, developed a strong desire to be loved, expect reciprocity, and turn ill when deprived of social interaction. There’s a reason why it hurts when it feel like no one cares about you, it’s the result of many generations of selection pressures. These social aspects of our nature are probably also hardware defined. This may sound extremely obvious, like it doesn’t have to be said, but Modernity (or whatever this current era will be called in the future), in its attempt to ignore human nature, has set up systems and institutions that go against our social nature. 


Examples: Psychology is studied individually instead of collectively, people are treated like interchangeable cogs in a machine, the way work is structured is directly anti-family and anti-community, we have delegated many responsibilities to the state instead of the local community. This one’s the funniest: Globalist monoculturalists telling tribal humans who have lived tribally for +100,000 years that living with a bunch of other tribes, then paying no attention to unchecked demographic and cultural changes, is good for everyone. Then, these same people are utterly confused when inevitable conflicts and tribal tensions rise. The hypocrisy is that the majority of the time, these people’s personal communities, close friends, the neighborhood they live in, the group they interact with the most, are often members of their own tribe. Without even realizing it, they are committing mate suppression subconsciously to maximize the odds their tribe gets more mass & energy than everyone else. Everyone else has to share mass & energy amongst all the other tribes while theirs don’t. (More on this later) 


Human Nature Adheres To Authority:
The defining trait of our species is how well we adhere to authority. We underestimate how much of our lives revolve around adhering to whoever or whatever has power since we can’t get everything we need on our own. You’re born and can’t feed yourself, so you adhere to your parents and how they run the house. No one wants to feed you when you’re older so you adhere to the systems society pre-made for you and do the GPA, SAT, and extracurricular college rituals, then you go to college and all those rituals to get internships and jobs. As an adult your source of mass & energy comes from your boss, your business, or society so you adhere to the financial system, laws, government, social norms, the various morals or beliefs of your society or group, etc. Your entire life revolves around adhering to the pre-made systems and insititutions of the society and era of history you were born into. No one is truly individualistic and gets to do whatever they want. Everyone, even the most powerful people in the world, have to operate in a way that somewhat alligns with the current set of man-made systems, institutions, and encumbant power structures because fundamentally, you the individual, can not do or get everything you want by yourself and must get it from others. So you must adhere. Our entire society is built on top of the fact that you will do what you are told, either by other people directly, or other people indirectly through finance, laws, systems, and institutions. A true individualist’s only constraint would be the laws of physics, but for now, humanity’s defining trait is our cuckness to authority and conformity. 
Our cuckness is the fundamental building block of our entire civilization. Money only exists because we say it exists and we all agree it has value. Law only exists because we say it exists and we agree to follow it or else someone will punish us, and the enforcers of the law only do so because they will be paid money. Religion exists and continues to exist  because people reliably adhere to the teachings of a more powerful being. Mongols can conquer and rule China despite being outnumbered 100:1 because people can be told that they’re conquered and belong to a new group of elites, and most people would just accept it. Athenian elites pushed 20% - 30% of the entire Athenian citizenship into poverty, serfdom, and debt slavery for decades before the people finally mustered enough anger to force Solon’s reforms (594 BC).


In Athens, poorer farmers often borrowed from wealthy landowners to buy seed or survive bad harvests. These loans were usually secured against the borrower’s person, meaning if they couldn’t repay, they (or their family) could be enslaved by the creditor. Over time, through bad harvests or droughts, poor farmers lost their land entirely and eventually 15% - 20% of the population became hektemoroi (“sixth-part men”), obligated to pay one-sixth of their produce to the landowner (notice this is still less than current income tax rates). Maybe 1% - 3% of Athenians sold themselves or their children into slavery abroad to pay debts. Since the debt was tied to the family, children would be born into debt. Another 40% of the population lived in constant fear that a few bad harvests would turn their family into hektemoroi or debt slaves. The poor had no legal recourse against exploitation, since courts and magistrates were dominated by aristocrats. By about 594 BCE, after 20-40 years of acute crisis, this system had created a large permanent underclass who were landless, enslaved in Athens or abroad, and unable to serve as soldiers due to poverty. Athens’ defense was weakening because its traditional citizen army was shrinking (citizens were responsible for buying their own weapons and equipment). The rich feared losing everything in a revolution similar to what had happened in other Greek poleis (where tyrants had taken power by championing the poor). Aristotle said the crisis was so acute that “the city was on the verge of dissolution.” Athenian elites essentially made Solon a mediator with emergency powers to avoid civil war, a rare admission by the elite that things had gone too far. Solon, elected archon in 594 BCE, introduced reforms to ease the crisis by cancelling all debt, freed debt slaves and returned those sold abroad, outlawed debt slavery, and reorganized the political system so wealth, not birth, determined political participation. It should be mentioned the only real reason the elites bothered to change things was to keep their own heads and keep the army strong so they don’t lose their wealth and power to foreign invaders. Keep in mind, the population put up with this for decades before any real pushback from the population formed. At any time the population had the physical ability to topple the government and elites and make it anew, but our evolutionarily derived cuck instinct subconsciously drove them to adhere to society.


It always takes a truly egregious amount of abuse before the population reaches the open revolt threshold. There are many such stories, like the French Revolution, Russian Revolution, and the brutality of the Second Serfdom where it seems like the elites were able to get away with pushing the population much further into poverty than they logically should have been able to because we have been evolutionarily bred to shut up and do what we’re told. Do you think you’re any different from any of these other millions of people who lived and died under elite abuse? Despite how angry you are with the brazen corruption in Congress, the unrestrained greed of the elites, the Epstein files, the inadequate and ridiculous cost of education, the sheer blatant exploitation of the healthcare system and insurance companies, the insane unrelenting increase in housing costs, and all the other wrongs in the country, you like many others, won’t take up arms and rebel against the elites until you are literally starving because selection pressures over many thousands of years have made us a cuck to authority. The defining trait of our species is how well we adhere to authority. 
        Due to this unique adaptation, our society is structured in way where it relies on leaders to mobilize labor and resources to get things done. The conductors are very important. 18th century musicians probably had no idea they could’ve played anything so good until Mozart got everyone to do it. Without Mozart, all of those musicians could’ve gone their everyday lives, not knowing they could’ve produced something truly special (I don’t listen to Mozart btw, but I know it’s good). Again, a lot of people go about their daily lives not knowing that if the right person was in the right place, they could’ve been brought into an orchestra and do something great. That’s what Elon Musk did with SpaceX. It would’ve been a great shame if someone as talented as Tom Mueller went about his life without using his talents to its fullest potential. Without SpaceX, the same engineers who worked on making Falcon 9 reusable (self-landing) would probably be working in legacy aerospace companies right now, having no idea they could have accomplished something truly great, had the right leader and organization been there. That’s why most people live out their everyday lives underutilizing their talents, most people have no idea what they’re really capable of because there was just no outlet to go 100%. You need people to bring the orchestra together, or else we walt in mediocrity. Mozart and Elon Musk brought people together to do things thought impossible. This begs the question, how many great things are not being made and great people not being put to good use because the right person wasn’t there to bring it all together? It’s such a shame how many SpaceXs or Google DeepMinds our species must be missing out on right now. Out of the total scientific and productive outputs our species could possibly produce with our labor and resources, what is the utility rate? It wouldn’t be surprising if it was below 10%, there is just so much underutilized talent out there it’s insane. If a civilization wanted to operate under the prime directive and focus on hitting a 99% utility rate, what would it have to do? The elites must organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the civilizational outputs because our species has evolved to adhere to authority.


<also, look at friend groups, if it loses a key few members it will disintegrate>


Elite Dynamics:
        Our natural tendancy adhere to authority gave rise to elites, the class of people who command the majority of a civilization’s labor and resources by controlling its systems and institutions. The course of human history has always been largely determined by these elites since they are the conductors of their civilization. Just observe who really calls the shots in the United States today. The vast majority of the population is dissatisfied with a great many things, but the only one who can make tangible changes to our daily lives are the elites in charge of the healthcare system, the education system, the insurance companies, Congress, the banks and financial services, etc. The ones with direct control over geopolitics (which our civilization will be reminded on the importance of), who this nation is friendly with, label as enemies, and who we trade with, is directly controlled by a few political and military elites. Don’t the like prices at the grocery store, the tuition costs, the housing costs, the taxes we pay and how it gets spent? Did the NPCs decide to have inflation and raise costs while wages remained stagnant, or were these mostly the decisions of the elites and elite aspirants? 
        We can map modern U.S. society, or any society in human history, into clear layers, each defined by their power, resources, and influence. There are maybe a total of 100,000 elites (~0.03% of the population) who already hold decisive control over the major levels of power in finance, politics, media, technology, law, and military command. They are the CEOs, the board, or the upper bracket of command at the largest corporations, the most cutting edge technology companies or academic research, top political leaders, the President, the members of Congress, the House, the Supreme Court justices, federal judges, Federal Reserve chair, high-ranking military commanders, tech founders, adminisrative leadership in academia and prominent universities, and all the other various key positions in public and private entities. Incredibly influential celebrities who can sway the opinion of millions are also elites. They are not necessarily a centralized or cohesive entity, they compete with each other, are part of different cliques, form alliances or go to war, and are generally concentrated in many different industries and locations from LA, San Francisco, New York, DC, Chicago, Austin, etc (this is what makes the US so special, its elites are not one unified cohesive force, which is hugely important to the plurality of powers and forming an iterative society). This intercompetition expresses itself in elite dynamics, which is usually the main force behind many of the key events within history. Collectively, these elites at ~0.03% of the population contribute probably 75% - 85% of the financial, economic, regulatory, political, geopolitical, technological, productive, and cultural outcomes of American civilization. 
        Elite aspirants hold modest concentrations of power and influence and want to make their mark on the world and achieve elite status. They consist of the children of elites, the lieutenants of elites, well-respected figures within an elite’s organization, less powerful but ambitious members of the government and military, the founders or the higher-ups of prominent and growing companies, the founders and higher-ups of promising technology/industrial startups, prominent academics, rising cultural figures. Basically, it's any serious “rising” figure within their respective sphere of society with the proper momentum, resources, and connections to potentially become an elite. There are probably 1 million elite aspirants (~0.3% of the population) in the United States influencing perhaps 10% - 20% of the civilizational outcomes. 
        The general population, of the NPCs (non-player characters)


The general population with little direct control over the major systems and institutions of the country.


The other 338.9 million Americans (99.67% of the population) can be considered NPCs (non-player characters) and collectively account for maybe 5% - 10% of the outcomes. Of course there are higher and lower elites, things are usually a spectrum and not strict tranches, and this applies to the elite aspirants and the general NPC population as well. Some NPCs may be wealthier and smarter than others, but their everyday actions are effectively, still NPC behavior. 






*** Probably the best predictor of a nation’s long term success is if the elites can regulate themselves from degeneracy and decadence and not be greedy. If enough elites, maybe 25% of elites have a sense of civic duty to want their civilization to prosper (or the incentives aligned to that) your civilization gets +20 points to reaching the prosperity threshold. But if only 10% of elites have a sense of civic duty then that adds maybe +5 points. That is the big problem with developing countries, the elites want to hold a monopoly on every sector, every industry as the country develops and an oligarchy forms. Elite aspirants, ambitious young people, and the children of elites find themselves playing along with the established elite power system to get any of the wealth or power themselves. A young elite aspirant couple is certainly incentivized to play along with the oligarchy, especially if the oligarchy is corrupt and violent. This oligarchy, or centralizing power, is prevalent in almost every society, but its much more harmful for developing countries. Developing countries need to mobilize as much intelligence, labor, and resources as possible to reach the development threshold and oligarchical, centralized elite dynamics slow that down alot. 


who’s goal is to reach elite status, may tota








, ware usually the children of elites, 




Like it or not, the vast majority of people do not influence the 
        




Culture, Belief Systems, and Elite Dynamics:
























This socialization goes directly against our innate free-will instincts we developed before we became socialized. 
This tension between the individual, the family, the tribe, and now the civilization is furious. 










The fundamental bedrocks  naturally organize ourselves into hierarchies and adhere to authority. 


We really underestimate how well we adhere to authority and how much we operate like a hivemind. Our species has a natural gravitation towards naturally gravitate towards anyone who seems to command authority . We fawn over celebrities, idolize role models, and are great at putting people up a pedestal to be worshipped despite not knowing anything about who they really are. Entire populations can gravitate towards a leader and commit atrocities on their behalf. A single figure can inspire entire armies or sway entire populations.


Human nature has it we naturally gravitate towards leaders. 


We just gravitate to leaders Groups of aggressive, rowdy young men can stand to attention when the right authority


There is always an inverse relationship between what is good for the individual and what is good for the larger entity. Imagine if the cells in your body wanted to unionize and work fewer hours. That would be devastating to you the greater organism. What you’d like is for the individual cells to work 24/7, be given subsistence levels of glucose, and literally work to the death. This dynamic between what I need, what my family needs, and what my society needs is an ongoing tension that pulls apart social cohesion, so we had to develop mechanisms to keep us working together. 


We developed quite a few interesting behaviors. When a foreign entity attacks the tribe, individuals who instinctively prioritize self-preservation will suddenly willingly fight to the death for it. Also, it’s odd how well we adhere to authority. Aggressive young men will stand to attention when the right authority figure walks into the room, 


weird how when the leader arrives, you instinctively want to respect them. Any group of people can instinctively identify who the leader is and a rough estimate of where they themselves rank within the group. Or when someone does something nice for you, you instinctively want to do something nice back. That had to be selectively bred into us. We also became timid scaredy cats caring what others may think of us when secretly we like those who don’t care what others think. We don’t like to be loud when everyone else is quiet. We have a bunch of small micro behaviors around staying in group, group consensus, follow the crowd, think what everyone thinks. People think they are truly independent thinkers but don’t realize human nature axed that a long time ago. You are certainly influenced by those around you and the era & society you were born into. That’s why Covid was so important to me because I isolated myself (atleast with in person interaction) for months. It’s also healthy to acknowledge the ideas of my era & society and nuke them reanalyze for myself if they are actually good ideas instead of blindly adopting them. Capitalism, democracy, globalism, free trade, social liberalism, social conservatism. Much of our society are just direct rejections of Nazi Germany. The idea that we are all equal, that there are no superior or inferior cultures, nationalism is wrong, etc. basically took all the teachings society threw at me and do the opposite. Under scrutiny you realize everything has a time and place and they all have strengths and weaknesses and a spectrum of usefulness. Purity spiraling to “always” do this thing is hurting us because that’s not how the world works. There is always a band or range of usefulness or everything. 










Innate human nature drives +90% of our thoughts and actions. Something under the hood thinks first and then tells your frontal cortex to rationalize it to convince yourself it was your own idea. 


A quick proof that you’re still mostly a monkey. The Müller-Lyer illusion:


  



Even though you know the straight lines between each set of arrows are all the same length, you still have to actively force yourself to remember that because some part of you keeps saying they’re different. You can suppress it, convince yourself to ignore it, or not act on it, but you will always feel it to some degree. Same goes with fictional stories, fictional movies, or music. The fact that any of these can actually elicit an emotional response from us is pretty funny.




Culture and Belief Systems:




The most egregious was the active push to destroy communities that revolve around shared cultures, identity, morals, and behavior and replace them with a globalist monoculture elite and surface level culture for the masses. Nowadays, culture is referred to as entertainment.


Culture is the fundamental  








        Culture is the shared framework of what is true, how to get mass and energy, and what to do with them. Just like how there must’ve been issues while solitary primates were transitioning to groups, we are still having issues in our transition from tribal groups to civilization. We have a lot of innate human nature baggage that is just not conducive for civilization. 
Our ancestors figured this out the hard way a long time ago and when they made mistakes, they made sure to encode those learnings in culture and traditions. That’s what traditions are for, they’re solutions to problems we’ve forgotten about. Human nature is not conducive for civilization so we need to place safety mechanisms to regulate our behavior. 






Then, while trying to adapt to civilization, we industrialize and form a whole different kind of civilization. Something about our innate human nature is having trouble adapting to an industrialized, urban wealthy society. People are inexplicably sad, depressed, or anxious beyond their control because +90% of our thoughts and actions are fundamentally driven by human nature.


– make sure you mention how cultures are just a way to distribute and preserve information. Your ancestors learned a lesson and tried to embed  those learnings into traditions and culture. 


        The underlying worldviews and belief structures society operates on massively affects the trajectory of civilizations. 








        














West Papua Tribe:
        Before moving on to the next segment - there are many examples in human history showing the importance of systems and institutions, but nothing really drills down the point better than what happened to the indigenous Dani people in West Papua.






 In 1938 an aerial expedition discovered villages and cultivated fields in the jungle highlands of West Papua. Later in the 1950s and 1960s, anthropological expeditions made first contact with the Dani, who were still living in a neolithic society. The documentary “Dead Birds” (1963) filmed their everyday lives and what their society was like. From that documentary, there’s a clip on YouTube showing a battle between 2 rival villages and it’s fascinating. Easily the best footage we have of raw human nature from pre-civilization societies. 
Highly recommend watching the whole thing, you won’t be disappointed: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JI4uirwxx1Y&list=PLMuAVkqwYV9TxY9v5ucVqs4uKNZvpchcR&index=138


That would be me, if I was born into that society, that would be me running around butt naked chucking spears on a Saturday afternoon. I wouldn’t think anything of it, that’d be by normal. But if any one of those natives from that video was instead born into American society, that person would be indistinguishable from any other American. This is an accurate assumption because the book “Dreams Made Small” (2018) describes how Dani children integrated into modern society. Within a single lifetime, someone who grew up using stone tools, living in a grass hut, without any concept of anything outside the surrounding jungle, had children who eventually went to school, got a 9 to 5 office job, and lived similar lives to the rest of us (It’s so funny how many perceived differences go away when you see modern West Papua natives wearing t-shirts and jeans). Sure it wasn’t perfectly seamless, but the human hardware/software of newborn Dani children were able to adapt fairly well to modern systems and institutions 10,000 years more advanced than anything their ancestors had known. This rings several alarm bells. First, it shows that a Stone Age society is our default setting and the modern civilization we get to enjoy today is a construct that was painstakingly built and needs to be maintained. If we don’t pass down the knowledge and skills to generate electricity or make computers, it will be lost, and humanity will regress. If we don’t pass down a good culture to our children, teach them the right belief systems, worldviews, what is right and wrong, and how to behave, they will revert back to Neolithic behavior. Civilization has inputs and outputs. Secondly, the transition between societies went relatively smoothly because modern society still fundamentally operates under human nature. Our technology and pleasantries are relatively thin veneers hiding our animalistic, primitive nature that drives +90% of our thoughts and actions. It’s hardware defined. The evolutionarily derived atomic structures of your neurons and how they fire means it would take an extreme amount of social conditioning and cultural discipline to go against your nature. 
            * Unless you have a severe genetic mutation, your nature, like mine and everyone else’s, is hardwired to: Need to be loved and understood, to be social, reciprocate kindness, feel valued and respected, adhere to authority, etc. Really, a lot of our nature was formed when we started working in groups and the compromise between the groups needs and your needs and social competition. 


            * A lot of it is the interplay or compromise between doing good for the larger group but protecting yourself from being taken advantage of. 
            * Some of these are pretty easy to play out in your head. In a famine or ice age the ones who worked together in groups survived and within those groups whoever was the most likeable ate first. Or some prehistoric chief realized he can say do whatever he wants and they followed him so he abused and mistreated them so eventually individuals learned to do self preservation. 
            * 

This is why ignoring human nature is so naive and dangerous. Elites and societies always pay the price when dismissing it for too long. Lastly, if all it took was introducing some new technologies and systems & institutions to leap frog Dani society, why don’t we more effort into advancing our technology and finding better systems and institutions? The vast majority of our mass & energy, efforts, intelligence, and money goes towards maintaining society instead of progressing it. Finding what % of your society’s labor and resources goes towards maintaining society vs improving it, and the change every year, is probably a good gauge of your civilization’s trajectory. 






Let’s say we’re playing Civilization 5 (my favorite game) and you spawned a in 4000 BC. Let’s say 








 begs the question what society is doing today to limit itself into its modern local optimum.




If you have an objective function you have a clear measurable use that to determine if youre makin
Goal is to increase civ outputs. Total civ focus. Use the objective function to judge every decision. 






 it shows that modern civilization is not really that advanced, maybe an inch above primitive. If babies from Neolithic societies can swap into modern ones relatively easily doesn’t that mean 


we’ve stretched our Stone Age hardware/software 


teach children how to behave, what is right and wrong,  


how to conduct yourself properly, and behave we will  


If you do not maintain it, it will revert back to our default settings in the stone agr


First, it clearly shows that modern civilization still operates fundamentally on human nature and instincts. Secondly, how much of our current civilization is held back by our current systems and institutions? How much better can our civilization be if we can just change the way we organize ourselves and had the right technology?






So what’s the difference between the Dani people thousands of years ago, the Dani in 1963 when they were first discovered, and the Dani people today. The geography and climate are largely the same, the genetics are the same, the key difference is how the Dani decided to organize themselves into systems and institutions. Granted, someone had to tell them Culture, belief systems, world view, incentive structures, and all the modern institutions and governance systems. 






The land is the same, the climate/genetics are the same, the only difference is operating under a different set of systems and institutions. The only things stopping the Dani tribe was how they organized each other and what systems and institutions to operate under. So now, if we know that the only thing stopping the Dani tribe from advancing are systems and institutions, then what systems and institutions do we have now that could potentially be stopping us from a better local optimum. The only thing separating them and me are the systems and institutions we grew up in. If I was born in that tribe I’d be chucking spears butt naked with feathers on my head and I would just think that’s normal. If someone from that video was born in the United States they’d be like any other average Joe. If I was born into a space age society I’d be doing all the things they do. And the only difference would be the systems and institutions we were born in. They were stuck in the stone age optimum 100% entirely due to themselves, so then what local optimum are we stuck in entirely due to ourselves. And what really is the difference between our society and their’s. You can come up with many, but they essentially boil down to the differences in the level of science, production, and human well-being. 




—-----after talking about how culture and worldviews can have night and day affects on us


        Societies revolve their culture around their source of mass & energy. 


– make sure you mention how cultures are just a way to distribute and preserve information. Your ancestors learned a lesson and tried to embed  those learnings into traditions and culture. 


        The underlying worldviews and belief structures society operates on massively affects the trajectory of civilizations. 






If people in each era and society believed in completely different things, you must assume that the things you believe in are merely the product of the era and society you live in. 


All ideologies must come with limits and parameters or we will just mess it up. 




Muslim example. Indian mystics.


Every human being has a slot to believe in something. Religion is importsnt to regulate our human nature. -maybe talk about human nature here.






////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
        
        










Elite Dynamics:
Elite dynamics stem from human nature. Notice all the stuff going on today, how much is driven by 99% or 1% of the population. the actions of the elites have always been the true writers of history. 


Civilizational Cycles:


Turns Tabled:


What’s Going On Today:
            * financialization is heroin for civilizations. 


Practical solutions:


Speedrunning Civilization:


Speedrunning to sci-fi civilization:


Yearning for a world that doesn’t exist yet








Speedrunning Civilization:
        If we agree modern civilization is better than every other civilization that came before and we can boil down the reasons why into the differences in the levels of science, production, and human well-being, that begs the question: If there was a society in 4000 BC that culturally ingrained the prime directive into every decision they made, would they successfully build a civilization like ours today? This is the setting to Civilization games, my favorite game of all-time being Civilization 5.


Full disclosure: I spent so much time playing Civ 4 & 5 growing up, it 100% affects the way I think about things. In the game, atleast for a domination victory, the way you win is by making every single decision to maximize the science, production, and happiness in your civilization, which just happens to be the core idea of this document. I didn’t really realize this until a few months ago. So while my 10 year old brain was developing, Civ 5 came out, I played a lot well into highschool, sometimes in college, and even occasionally post-grad. This is how I’ve been conditioned to think there are many similarities between the core principles in winning Civilization games and civilizations winning in real life. Someone in Firaxis Games realized what the important inputs for a civilization are first and implemented it into the Civilization games.


In the game, cultural policies have names like Legalism, Monarchy, Meritocracy, Theocracy, Secularism, etc. As a player, I don’t care what the hell names are, I pick policies based on how much gold, science, hammers, or what perks it will give my civilization per turn. It’s completely objective based on what brings me closer to victory. Same goes with religion, whether in game or the real world, it shouldn’t really matter what the name or practices are, as long as it’s a net positive for society based on the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Culture and religion should be chosen pragmatically, but it would be incredibly difficult to accurately measure the civilizational outputs of each culture/religion because the real world is just so complicated and messy (In Civ 5 you can hover the mouse over the policy and it’ll tell you the stats like +17% science per turn or +2 food per turn). Even if we did, we would almost certainly never pick them pragmatically due to our current form of human nature and the conflicting interests of established systems and institutions . 


So here’s an interesting question. If you, with what you know now, were put in charge of a random society in 4000 BC and you can’t die or age, you’re pretty much immortal (basically the same conditions as in Civilization), what would you do? This is a great question to get to know someone since it will just so obviously reveal what principles that person really operates on, their worldview, character, and most importantly, what they really believe in. So here’s a little about myself: 
The prime directive will be the overarching guiding principle in speedrunning this 4000 BC society into a modern-day civilization, which can probably be done by 3000 BC through serious, concentrated effort. Although human nature is the same, the genetics are the same, and the geography/climate are the same, this indigenous North American society will fare better than the real life Native Americans because the labor and resources will be organized into effective systems & institutions. To set this trajectory, civilization will have a goal, civilization will operate scientifically and use the iterative method to achieve that goal, and everyone will understand that the world is governed by fundamental truths that can be understood and used to their advantage. Embedding these ideas into the culture from the start immediately advances the worldview and framework the society operates under by thousands of years. 
Consensus literature has it our starting society is probably a small agricultural & herding community of a few hundred people at most. Lets say we get lucky and landed a temperate climate society in North America. With just a few hundred people, scarce resources, and a meager food surplus, the best way to organize labor and resources will be a command economy concentrating efforts into specific tasks. Capitalism, property rights, money, and free markets aren’t very useful during this early stage because society is not very complicated yet. For now, things will be communal and shared until society becomes wealthy and stable enough to foster, and then reap the benefits of the competing forces of capitalism. Treat all systems and institutions like tools and machines, they have strengths and weaknesses, and only work well under a certain set of conditions.
 It’s imperative to set up a low latency, low information loss system where accurate information from the real world makes its way to the processing unit (you), it computes, and then decisions are distributed to the appropriate agents for execution. The information bandwidth of human speech and the brain’s processing speed are not yet serious bottlenecks for smaller organizations. That’s why a command economy will work well here. However, it will begin to breakdown as the society grows since our natural communication/processing speeds will bottleneck larger organizations significantly, and then an iteration of our core system and institutions will become necessary.
With this in mind, the first step to increase the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs is to dramatically increase the population. If 100% of all labor and intelligence come from people, then more people means you can do more stuff. Migrate everyone to more fertile grounds, with lots of fish and animals to hunt, and not a lot of disease. Increase food surplus through irrigation, fertilizers, crop rotation, and selectively breed the best crops. Domesticate as many animals as possible, especially ones that can plow and haul. Try to find crops with more calories and proteins. As the population grows, develop a formal writing system, basic math, and a basic legal system to distribute and allocate resources efficiently (Civilizations created these things because they reached a new local optimum that required new traits to survive). In larger civilized societies, keeping track of the population and resources to make sure everyone is fed, disagreements are settled peacefully, and knowing who owns what becomes crucial. Numbers allow you to measure the change when iteratively trying to improve farming techniques or other aspects of society. Of course, the world is not a PvE server, there will probably be other societies competing for resources. Peace is always preferred, but by default, expect war. A larger population means more men to fight, which is good for the civilizational outputs because losing cities, losing people, and being conquered is not good for the civilizational outputs. Society needs to secure a food surplus and safety to do anything else. Also, tell everyone a heads up about germs.
Once the population grows to a few thousand, it make sense to introduce capitalism, money, property rights, and free markets. Society gets to a size and scope where it’s just impossible for one person to coordinate everything. As the population grows, so does the list of goods and services demanded to keep things running smoothly. Get the low latency, low information loss system mentioned earlier, and distribute decision making to the population as a whole. Transition away from a command economy and maximize the utility of the population’s intelligence and labor by letting others collect information, compute, make decisions, and execute. 


Throughout history, most civilizations actively restricted these beneficial systems and institutions to within their own privileged elite class. That was the big mistake everyone was making. They were operating under silly incentives pleasing their human nature, instead of pragmatic decisions that increases the civilizational outputs. Notice how the trend over time was, when you let more and more people make decisions instead of the central authority, the world massively improved. Imagine explaining this to a king back in the day. You can logically follow, if most of society’s labor and intelligence comes from people, and civilization improves by increasing the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs, then make more people and maximize their utility. But this would go over their heads and even if understood, not be implemented to protect the entrenched interests of the elite. (More on elite dynamics after this section)


Allowing individuals to make their own decisions will create various enterprises to meet market needs, those enterprises will themselves form needs, and those needs will be met by the market. Some may open mines, make charcoal, make houses, transport goods for others, make stone tools, etc. These enterprises will need currency, which will need banks, which will need laws and courts. The better enterprises will grow, the weaker ones will go bankrupt, mimicking the competitive evolutionary pressures in nature (that’s why capitalism works). This transition to civilization is marked by the society developing systems and institutions that can identify and solve problems on its own iteratively (specialized labor forms on its own). Your role as the civilization’s leader turns into something more like a farmer. The crops will grow fine on its own as long as you provide good soil, cut the weeds, and set the right direction for the farm. 
        When the population reaches a few thousand and a basic level of producive output has been set, it makes sense to focus on the scientific outputs. Gather the smart ones and basically beeline towards the Industrial Revolution. Excess labor and resources unlocked by food surpluses and productive enterprises should be concentrated on metallurgy, chemistry, mathematics, and physics. Obviously, any amount of progress in these areas are massive unlocks for society. Another outlet to increase the scientific output is to make pen and paper so society can finally write stuff down. Then you can labor efficiently distribute knowledge to the younger generations through books. Education is labor intensive, so although it will take time to increase literacy rates, everyone must eventually be literate and educated maximize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Also, it’d be great to emphasize biological research to have medicine. The pipeline from scientific discovery, its application to useful products, and then its profitable production & distribution to the rest of society is a key system in improving society. Scientific institutions, private enterprises, free markets, statutory patents, private ownership, money, banks, courts, and public education systems are all ways to organize labor and resources into increase the civilizational outputs. With these basic systems and institutions established, it is now possible to make your way towards electricity, computers, the internet, and later ai & robotics. 


Imagine trying to do all of this within a central authority using the pathetic rate of human input/output information bandwidth. It’s just not possible, as clearly demonstrated by North Korea vs South Korea, Soviet Russia vs United States, China pre and post Deng Xiaoping. Micromanaging central planning just does not work. 






% of efforts going to progressing vs maintaining society
Give an overall picture of what society is doing at this point
Point to the role of government and the benefits of slimming it down, how taxes would work.




This sounds great on paper, but the sheer grinding force of human nature. – the inevitable weeds and gunk that builds up in the gears must be removed, but human society is incapable, yes i mean almost entirely incapable in self-maintenance and we have evolved to rely on resetting the system to clear it out. 
























What’s so frustrating is that you can speed run modern day civilization to something like this: https://youtu.be/vp7xoPeWzEw?si=IdwiOiSE1JwFdg52
With the same principles speedunninga 4000bc to ours today. We can do this if we wanted to but no one really cares to do it. I truly do yearn for this future and will do my part to help realize it.






Destroy clan structure and establish strict meritocracy.




 Population grows will need stronger laws and institutions to keep things organized. Culture needs to be strong and unified for cohesion. If the vast majority of labour for all of the outputs are from people then you better have a high trust high cohesion society. There is a spectrum of competition beneficial to society, intercompetition is good but clan structure competition is probably bad. There is only 1 group of people and a single identity. To regulate human nature and behavior, introduce religions. Keep jailing and removing the bottom 1% of criminals and lawless behavior from society so over time more people become civilized over time and reduce crime rates. As the society gets wealthier and sees fewer threats, degeneracy and decadence will emerge. Some will not understand the rules, traditions, and culture that has been fostered was to protect civilization from entropy and they will question them, which is fair. Combat these at all costs for civilization to remain vigilant. Keep an eye on wealth disparity, elite overproduction, and out of control population growth that will stagnate wages. These are key factors that lead to youth unemployment and frictions within a society. Keep an eye out for when young people get married, what the job and dating markets are like, keep housing costs low, employment high, all this to keep the human well-being outputs high. At some point it will make sense to create a central bank. It’s important to remind everyone why they are doing this, what the purpose is. 


At a few hundred thousand and many generations of wealth and prosperity, you will notice some things. 
Some social merics to keep an eye on are the home ownership and marriage rates at what age. 
Eventually when people arent poor and in danger anymore, inevitably the new generations will ask. Why work so hard? Why let this one guy tell all of us what to do? I want to do something else. I just want to live life and have a good time. Eventually society loses the will and lose sight of why it is doing things as entropy seeps in. 


The problem with most civilizations throughout human history is that they may have existed for a long time but they didn’t really improve in any domain. So a peasant in 3000 BC Mesopotamia largely lived largely the same life as a 300 BC Roman. That’s why speedrunning civilization can be done faster than you think.
















 European country in the Medieval age, would you actually care that much what that era’s ideas are. I don’t care what any of you have to say or how difficult it is, someone in China has gunpowder, send someone there to get it, we’re going to mobilize the entire nation’s resources on making guns and putting cannons on ships. But don’t needlessly declare war on everyone just because you have military superiority. After we get better weapons, our society will beeline towards this thing called Industrialization. We’re going to get coal, burn it and boil water in clever metal contraptions, and use it to move things in factories and make stuff for everyone. Then were going to put steam engines in everything and make trains and steam ships. Then we’re going to do the same thing but with oil. Then beeline towards electricity and powering our society with steam engines. Then, we’re going to beeline to computers and electronics. I don’t care how useless, wastefull, or esoteric information theory and these large room-sized computers may seem to you, but it’s going to pay off I swear. Only once you get to about WW2 technology, only then would the military difference be large enough to declare war on the entire continent and win by a landslide (granted if you can maintain access to the oil, rubber, steel etc). After that mobilize society into the information era, Moore’s law, smaller computers, and most importantly the internet. Get everyone a personal computer, a personal phone, and talk and interact on the internet. Encourage everyone to play computer games and watch movies/shows on the internet from their personal computers. That way GPUs will become a thing and plenty of internet training data will exist for ai training and inference. All of these steps are logical things that would have benefited society and we can agree with them since we are all thinking logically, do not feel affiliated to this sceneario, and seeing everything at a birds eye view (Yes, the execution is a completely different story). Now let’s take it closer to home and if you were in charge of a European countryin the middle 2020s, what would you do? I don’t care what anyone has to say, or how hard it is, we’re going to mobilize the entire country’s resources and make the best chips, the best ais, and the best robots. 




















Elite Dynamics:
In the speedrunning a 4000BC society example, you did not have the issues of elite dynamics and the normal weeds that grow in society because you have righteously rooted them out. In the real world this does not exist, and rooting out usually comes through resets to the system either by reaching a critical mass of dissatisfaction sparking a revolution/civil war, getting conquered by a foreign power, or some chad reforming your entire society. This is the craziest thing we as a species do, we are never proactive on things and always procrastinate until things are about to hit the fan.


Unfortunately our culture right now revolves around achieving high social status accomplishments like going to the top schools and reaching top positions, but those prestigous accomplishments are not necessarily alligned with actually doing useful/positive things for society. The more elites who can align their work with useful stuff for society the better. But this is not happening, probably far below 50% of elite positions tangibly benefits society. What happens is the newly elite aspirants who want to make their mark in the world find themselves as small fish in a big pond. So they play along with the system working hard and building their network of elite connections because changing how things work is a very low probability event. So everyone just plays the game which deteriorates the effectiveness of civilization over the long term. You want to increase your social standing and income so you find more and better ways envelop more and more of society deeper into your elite systems. This over the long term deteriorates the effectiveness of society since it is not aligned for what is good for society, but what gives you points within the elite system. Everyone knows this, but when your livelihood and social standing is on the line, you hardly reach the internal threshold that makes you want to change it. 


Civilizational Cycles:


When we are not proactive on things and let the natural trajectory run its course, we run into patterns since human nature is the same and we make the same mistakes over and over again. This is the fundamental mechanism behind the concept of civilizational cycles. Now, the cycles are not clear and not well defined, but really, a fairly regular set of patterns caused by specific factors. The factors are population growth, elite overproduction, and stagnant wages.  






.




Our species basically spent the 20th century doing something like this to see if Communism and central planning was a good idea. It turns out Soviet Russia collapsed, West Germany did much better than East Germany, North Korea is starving while South Korea is making chips, millions of Chinese died under Mao and only industrialized after Deng Xiaoping adopted free markets and Capitalism, and Vietnam started seriously developing after adopting free markets and Capitalism. If we collect the data and measure the results, organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions like Communism and central planning clearly does not increase the scientific, productive, or human well-being ouptuts of society. Yet, somehow its proponents can be readily found around society today (particularly from the children of affluent families in the country’s most prestigious schools). 
American corporations became addicted to balance sheet maxxing and offshored much of its manufacturing/industrial base. Now the country can hardly make anything without foreign supply chains, including weapons and chips. So many American communities were stripped of good paying jobs it sent entire geographic areas into depressions. The Rust Belt was the epicenter of the opioid epidemic and entire generations fell behind economically (The Sackler family indirectly killed 500,000 Americans and ended up escaping criminal charges and kept most of their money). Now that it’s obvious deindustrializing will go down as one of the worst mistakes the country has ever made, rebuilding it is proving difficult because huge chunks of the ecosystem and knowledge base literally died off. Ontop of that, American civilization fell prey to easy money, becoming a hyper financialized economy. Wealth became detached from the ability to make things into how well you can use money to make money. When a society fosters a culture around speculation, over emphasizes the service economy, and the elites overinflates the prestige of law, medicine, and finance, civilization becomes detached from what really makes it wealthy and powerful. Have all the money and services you want, but when push comes to shove, the society that can produce the most bullets, planes, and ships holds true geopolitical power. Wealth to a civilization is stuff, how much land, food, materials, energy, houses, cars, clothes, and electronics its people has. Now take a hard look at the world today, the emperor has no clothes, an astonishing amount of wealth and power western civilization thinks it holds is actually dependant on the rest of the world cooperating with it. The United States holds the AI algorithms and computer designs, but the chips to actually run them are all made in Asia. Nvidia’s and Apple’s market caps are completely dependent on other asian countries to make it’s stuff. By law Nvidia and Apple owns their intellectual property, but in practice all of their trade secrets and designs are held by their asian suppliers. Every single chip or electronic component used by the west in any degree, from smartphones, computers, servers, manufacturing equipment, cars, airplanes, electrical substations, stop lights, power plants, diabetes trackers, toys, hospital equipment, medical machines, military equipment, the light switch in your house, literally anything that uses electricity in the west, are all dependant on supply chains in foreign countries. Every single one, there is not a single exception. Not to mention the pharmaceutical supply chains used in medications and drugs to keep the population tolerably healthy. Does the emperor have clothes? How much of the west’s 401ks, stock market, and financial wealth actually relies on foreign entities. 


The rest of the world keeps saying, yes, keep giving us your money while you become more dependent on us making your stuff. If you can’t get your own mass, get your own energy, and can’t make them into useful things on your own, you’re not really in control of your own destiny. 








The west became wealthy and dominant for too long and forgot that we still live in a Darwinian world. We do not live in a post-history world, it’s still a global colosseum where if your civilization does the wrong things, it will fall or be conquered by stronger one. The world is a global colosseum where if you become weak enough, your civilization 


You do not live in a post history world, it’s still a global colosseum where the strong and best win. 


This is important because we do not live in post-history. We still exist in a global colosseum where if you do the wrong things then your civilization and way of life goes extinct. 


This is all fun and great, but unfortunately we still live in a colosseum where if your civilization becomes weak, it will fall to another one.






it doesn’t live in a post-Darwinian world, we still exist in a global colosseum where if you aren’t strong others will conquer you one way or another.  Where 




Yes, 


, the elites become detached from reality on what really makes a civilization wealthy. Your society loses real civilizational power


You can just apply this to so many things. Do we believe having over 75% of adults being overweight or obese is good for the civilziational outputs? Since it’s not, how do you decrease that using the iterative method? Do you really think while the Romans were building its empire the people were obese? Do you think when the American people became the arsenal of democracy or Europeans were exploring the world, building the foundations of modern civlziation 75% of them were overweight and obese. 




The United States became addicted to easy money and became over emphasized service and financial economy.




offshored large swaths of its manufacturing base for balance sheet maxxing reasons










The United States faces a massive homelessness, drug addiction, and crime epidemic today. Many organizations have implement their solutions within their local area to combat these issues. I have never worked with, or talked to the good people working at these organizations, so I am an outsider looking in. However, as a Californian resident, I am not very satisfied with the results and can anecdotally tell the problems have only gotten worse the past decade. If a scientist had a hypothesis to cure a disease, ran many experiments in different ways for over a decade, and yet there was no meaningful reduction to the disease, but in fact only got worse, shouldn’t the scientist admit the hypothesis was wrong and look for a better one? If an engineer worked on the same problem for a decade, but the latency, speed, and reliability actually got worse, that engineer should be fired, the entire design and implementation should be deleted, and a new one should be built from scratch starting from a blank piece of paper. Modern systems and institutions are not operating like this. They operate ideologically, don’t seriously measure the results, and hardly iterate and implement new designs (bureaucracy probably gets in the way of many real solutions). The solution to these problems may not be clear, but the methodology to get better solutions is pretty obvious. Come up with solutions, whatever they may be. Test ideas in the real world by passing policies that expire within, say 10-15 years, with clear ideas/metrics of what an acceptable range of success looks like. When the time comes, carefully measure and analyze. If homelessness, drug use, and crime metrics are noticably lower then great, keep the policies or better yet, pass even better ones that build up on your original solution. If not, let the policies expire and come up with another solution. This may be a little naive considering the real world ugliness of implementation challenges, bureaucracy, external factors, funding etc. However, it certainly is better than whatever California has been doing the past 10 years. Every election cycle there are these propositions to do whatever they think will help, with zero disclosure of how they will determine what success or failiure looks like, what the implementation will look like, when the policy expires should it fail, who would be held accountable, etc. Zero. This is pure insanity. We are literally vibe-running our society with the same methodologies as pre-science intellectuals. 


or the expiration date of the proposition. It’s complete insanity. 






We have an immense homelessness, drug addiction, and crime problem today in the United States and the programs 






This is a much better way to make decisions than our current local optimum. Whenever our politicians pass legislation, under what basis are these policies passed on? 


Our politicians today are basically vibe leading 


which is what decisions make the most money Our leaders and politicians














////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////


More on industrialization:
–Trying to figure out why englands neighbors didn’t industrialize at the same time is like asking why americas neighboring countries and allies aren’t jumping on the intelligence revolution as fast as US today. Why aren’t they building chips, working on ai, or making robots. Why isn’t Canada Mexico Europe. 


During the 1700s you could’ve put iron and steel making technology as one of the best key techs of Industrial Revolution. Kind of like chips today. Without iron or steel you’re not making guns, canons for navy ships, buildings, steam engines, pumps, trains, railroads, watches nothing. A lot of people had to spend a lot of time refining how iron turns into steel reliably and consistently, include the fuel source coal from ashy coal or coke. 1750 England was in a rough spot, consumed 50,000 tons of iron while producing 18,000 so they got a lot of it from Sweden. So it was a national security issue because your high tech naval ships needed guns. Cort came to rescue and also Huntsman’s method.  Funny enough he was great at purifying iron but funded his forges by embezzling money from the royal navy, which he said he was set up till his death. 






//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////


Muslim world vs Catholic Church:


In reality these were all internal elite dynamics. Dude says science is less cool, my spiritual and theological ideas are more cool. The sheeps follow him. But an independent thinking european guy says i like science im going to stick to it. Kept that balance of power while in Middle East people were not as independent and went with the herd. 


So yes, saying the Catholic Church ensured the Scientific Revolution is indeed appropriate.
In fact, (another tangent) the Muslim world during the Islamic Golden Age (600 -1200) was incredibly scientific, intellectual, and open minded. Yet, over time their priest class made this deviation: that Allah created the world, therefore you should study Allah instead of the world since he was above it. The Catholic Church and its affinity for empirical science laid the foundations of the modern world we enjoy today. 


As important as systems and institutions are, they are fundamentally shaped by your society’s culture and worldview. The society’s mental framework of reality, the worldview, has a huge influence on your systems and institutions. The other massive influence on culture is from your source of mass and energy. 


was hunting you down for heresy.  because both the Catholic Church and Muslim world were scientific, however around 1200s  remained scientific while the Muslim wor


the outcome was so different for the Islamic and Hindu The Muslim and Hindu priest class did not share


“Ensuring” is indeed the appropriate term since the priest class in other civilizations thought the opposite. Without the approval of the most powerful institution in your civilization, there would be no scientific discourse during the renaissance. It would have been heresy to discuss science during the Enlightenment. Historical evidence from the Muslim world and Hindu speaks for itself.


The belief that the universe was created by a rational God encouraged the idea that nature operated by discoverable laws.


The Catholic Church itself became a primary, enduring institutional engine training generations in the disciplines that fed the Scientific Revolution. In the Islamic Golden Age, religion-friendly patronage certainly enabled high-level science, but the core religious school (madrasa) did not integrate the natural sciences to the same depth; instead, courts, observatories, hospitals, and private scholars formed a more patchwork ecology. It was permissible or commendable, but never seen as a form of worship.


People hear the muslims invaded Spain the 700s and just rememver that fact without making any connections why that particular date makes sense. The 700s was during the the Islamic Golden Age and a period of conquering by the newly Muslim invigoration the power difference between Europe and Middle East was wide. This is the gripe with history, they just spew out dates with almost no context to why that makes sense in context to what was happening to the rest of the world. Human civilization and inputs are a series of connections and inputs and outputs. 


It’s amazing how modern people see Christianity as oppressing against women when women were the first mass adopters of Christianity because it gave them so many more rights and privileges than what the broader society allowed them. I sound like a Christian at this point but im not, I just praise good systems and institutions when I see one.


The whole stint with Galileo Selective, High-Visibility Cases (Galileo, Index entries) produced symbolic chilling effects, prompting cautious rhetorical strategies (hypothetical framing, deference formulas).


Islamic golden age:  (Can also use what happened during the Islamic Golden Age (600s - 1200s) as an example but that’s another tangent)
How Muslim Intellectuals Deviated From Science Tangent:
Most people don’t know this, but the Middle East experienced an Islamic Golden Age from 600 - 1200. During this time Islamic civilization was incredibly intelligent, scientific, open minded, capitalistic, and the most gender equal at the time. 


They had great schools and open discussions and were great in math and empirical study of the world. However, they started deviating around 1200, and became less scientific and cared less about the objective world. They started to believe that Allah controlled the world, therefore studying Allah and not the world. They believed that fire doesn’t burn things by its nature, Allah causes the burning each time. A rock doesn’t fall because of gravity, Allah makes it fall. Al‑Ghazālī says (paraphrasing): we observe that when fire touches cotton, burning occurs; philosophers then assert a necessary connection. He replies: God could prevent burning (as with Abraham’s miraculous preservation from fire in Qur’ān 21:69). Therefore the link is not logically necessary Therefore, seeking natural laws or consistent physical causes was seen as unnecessary or even presumptuous. Allah made the world and is in control, therefore don’t study the natural world study Allah and his will. This gradual change in worldview changed the trajectory of the Muslim world’s scientific and productive output. 


 Basically by 1100 AD the Muslim world was more scientifically advanced than the Europeans and also believed in empirical evidence and discoverable truths. Eventually the idea that Allah created the world and controls all of nature, therefore study Allah not the natural world won out. Figures like 


Thinkers like Al-Ghazali (1058–1111), a hugely influential Islamic theologian, argued:
👉 “There are no natural causes. Allah directly causes everything, at every moment.”

For example:

            * Fire doesn’t burn things by its nature — Allah causes the burning each time.

            * A rock doesn’t fall because of gravity — Allah makes it fall, directly.

















South vs North Korea
Developing world
spanish/british systems in latin america
Muslim vs european world
               * As mentioned earlier the catholic church’s fateful decision to religiously legalize scientific progress and the pursuit of truth is distinctly different from what other spiritual leaders touted. Muslims -> god is above the world, so why study the world when you can study god (obviously this was just a power struggle between the religious leaders and scientific engineering elites and the religious leaders won and religiously justified their higher status. You’ll see this dynamic alot, where these civilizational policies that set trajectories are just elite dynamic games. We can spot these in our modern era today but it’s not so easy looking back. For example if Trump says he wants to shut borders down completely, future historians would say our society just became more seclusive when really its just the result of a power  struggle between the republican and democrat elites. 
               * Anways, the indian priest hood just took too much psychedelics and said dont leave india, nothing is real, dont write anything down and just built temples instead of soldiers when the muslims invaded. 












(If you want to get into why the Ming dynasty was so repressive against merchant fleets and technology, the Ming emperors, especially the founding emperor Zhu Yuanzhang (Hongwu), believed absolute control was the only way to maintain stability. Zhu Yuanzhang was a peasant rebel who deeply distrusted elites, foreigners, and merchants. China’s long history of recurring cycles of unification and fragmentation is always in the minds of the elites. To survive




unified dynasties an. The Ming Dynasty sought to protect themselves from any threats from merchants, generals, or other elites and that’s why they were so repressive, a stark difference from the Song dynasty before it.)




 it’s because the Tang dynasty right before it is infamous for political instability, emperors were constantly overthrown or assasinated. They went through about 




The only thing stopping China from a full-scale industrial revolution were slight changes in culture, systems, and institutions. How we organize ourselves within our societies have such insanely divergent results
        So if you trace back the improper set up of systems and institutions leading to political instability and uncertain authority that led to the Ming dynasty killing their Age of Exploration and Industrial Revolution they were on the brink of, so the Chinese stagnated while Europe rose and centuries later a couple British ships basically took control of China. You can trace all of these not by great individuals, geography, genetics or whatever but how the systems and institutions set up the trajectory of civilizations. Setting up systems and institutions should be the easy part, its just agreements on how humans organize each other and work with each other, the hard part should be actually working with mass and energy and making cities and making steel and distributing, those are supposed to be the hard problems because they actually take mass and energy expenditure. Writing some rules and agreements on pieces of paper costs almost no mass and energy yet influences the mass & energy outcomes so much. Systems and institutions and getting those right is probably the most impactful things you can do for civilization. We just have to operate like this because were a bunch of barely conscious monkeys. 










////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////


//////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////


Random shit:
During the turns tabled phase, when talking about the modern world discuss our beliefs and morals are a product of the era we live in. How the west got PTSD from the world wars and lost its soul and is currently committing suicide. modern western culture is a direct rejection to nazi germany - our current culture discourages nationality, masculinity, aggression is bad, there is no superior or inferior culture, saying X group is superior is incredibly taboo, we are all the same, color blind, race blind. Also a great outlet to discuss how financialization helped kill the west and is civilizational heroin. Addicted to cheap money. The Europeans were right about mercantilism and as the world increasingly becomes multi polar it becomes obvious your nation’s wealth is highly dependant on how many and how well it can compete in different industries. England, the birthplace of the industrial revolution was down to it’s last steel mill which was supposed to be shut down but only saved by government intervention. What exactly is made in England now? Some highly sophisticated equipment, engines, and some things like that, but the English people have gotten poorer because there is nothing for the majority of them to make. 


























        
Just look at Singapore on Google Earth, its not supposed to be there, it should be an un notable plot of jungle but a couple of good decisions later its a prosperous city state. They were exceedingly good at organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimized the civilizational outputs. 


This is the first veil, fundamentally, civilization operates under biological principles. 


Just make sure you include in the elite overproduction part and how when the catholic church decided to allow science, it was basically a bunch of dudes who really liked science and thought it was cool and just said “this is cool god allows it” and don’t forget how the muslim priest class and scribes banned their civilization back by banning the printing press. 
               * A dense mesh of conflicting elite interests. 


//////////////////
The biological view on human history
Imagine looking at earth from afar you see organisms grow iterate reproduce adapt evolve, then comes humans and they survive, reproduce, iterate, and evolve but socially. 


The bottle neck for humanity has always been the way we organize ourselves, our culture. Ask anyone in AI today. What is the true bottle neck for ASI, is it truly going to be how fast scientists and engineers can improve algorithms and make chips, or how fast society can mobilize its resources to facilitate the ai revolution and ontop of that, adapt society to adapt the change. The shortage of energy/transformers in the USA isn’t truly engineering or scientific, but our systems and institutions and how they work. The real bottleneck of mass robots wont be how fast we can make them but how willing societies are in replacing jobs. In time, it will become increasingly obvious that civilization and culture are apart of the technology stack as well. The bottle neck for our species is overcoming our own monkey brains and find good systems and institutions that work well with maxxing these outputs.
















Despite having a goal, people have different goals than what’s best for civilziation. Elite aspirations, living a comfortable life, or just taking care of your family. The immense success of capitalism was capturing everyone’s personal goals and diverting as much of it as possible to benefit the larger civilization. 
        
        
        












        








The following writing is to better help you help humanity to be the best we can be. 


The prime directive of civilization is to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. I yearn for a future where humanity is fruitful and prosperous amongst the stars. A future where we finally master ourselves and learn to work with our own nature. Our society could be mobilizing its resources towards space colonization, lifespan extension, or abundant energy. We certainly could, but we’re not. Instead, probably over 95% of the mass & energy and intelligence humanity uses today is spent on maintaining society, while only 5% is used to progress it. You might’ve noticed by now, but our species is pretty lost and aimless. We haven’t figured ourselves out yet. We managed to attain civilization but we don’t know what to do with it. Most of the time it just exists aimlessly with no real purpose besides survival. We can’t even keep civilizations going for long. They constantly die out because we’re chained to an evolutionarily crafted, hardware defined human nature that hasn’t fully adapted to civilization yet. Although all things in the universe must abide by the rules of physics, our civilizations like to operate foolishly under false assumptions. We don’t truly understand ourselves or what systems and institutions are best suited for our nature. We’ve been trying to figure it out for a while now. We’ve had experiments with many different civilizations with different religions, social & political structures, and economic systems trying to figure out the best way to go about civilization. 
This is a fundamental question all life tries to answer through evolution, what is the best way to organize mass & energy to do useful things for the organism/species? Civilization is no different and should be seen as nature’s local optimum solution to this problem. Graphs like the “Timeline of Human History” https://usefulcharts.com/products/timeline-of-world-history?srsltid=AfmBOooVHrudi7G4Ui4_THvy-XSU3B1HB2C2xrAZFUMWOmPlhJ2GhG_c is akin to an evolutionary tree. Single celled organisms evolved into multi-cellular, then plants & animals, and developed immune systems, eyes, brains, arms & legs. Likewise, human civilizations had their own evolutionary tree, where the civilizations formed traits in the form of culture, law, religion, social structures. Individuals learned to work together, form tribes, civilizations, then developed monotheistic religions, monogamy, Confucianism, Capitalism, Feudalism, etc. The civilizations that had good enough traits survived and reproduce while the ones that didn’t died off or were conquered by someone better. Civilizations were petri dishes that formed traits, tested them in the real world, and would adapt and change to fit their environment and compete with others. 
We have deeply ingrained emotions and identity tied to the belief systems and ideals of our culture. One must always remember that if many different people in other eras of history had very different beliefs from you, then many of my beliefs must also be a product of the era of history and country I am born in. In deep retrospect, many of the beliefs I held as fundamental truths such as democracy, capitalism, equality, and such are not fundamentally true and don’t work all the time. These ideologies should be seen as tools and not absolute truths. Like any tool, they are best used to some extent under certain conditions. This the problem with civilizations, they are driven by blind ideology. When something is embedded into the essence of culture and belief systems there is no mechanism to regulate ideology from purity spiraling. Many ideology driven civilizations had no internal mechanism to say, hold on what we’re doing here is dumb let us readjust ourselves and remain pragmatic. They purity spiraled and so the Japanese thought they could beat the United States in WW2, Indian mystics decided that caring about the material is wrong and the spiritual is important so when Muslims invaded they built templed instead of armies, 




. Democracy, capitalism,  
        There should be an engineering approach to civilization. 














My hypothesis that you can test, is that the best way to go about human civilization even if we are highly enhanced and not anything like base-level humans, is to have the goal that civilization is to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimizes the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. This is best achieved through an iterative process and plurality of power. 






 The series of civilizations and social and cultural development they’ve made is akin to an evolutionary tree diagram. Different civilizations evolved differently based on their environment, their source of mass & energy and predators. Some died some lived, and the ones still around today are the ones with the right evolutionary characteristics. 


////We’ve accomplished the biological goal to survive, but now We don’t have a new goal. That was one the problems with civilization, what was the goal. ////




, most failed, but right now we’re doing the best we’ve ever have, but it seems that we haven’t been vigilant and entropy is seeping in. 






Yearning for a world that doesn’t exist yet:
The Jews saw the decadence and severe act of the surrounding civilizations during the Bronze Age collapse. So they created rules and culture like the 10 commandments to help their descendants learn to organize themselves in a way that won’t fail like the others did. Their laws, religion, and social organizations are a direct response to and rejection of the ways of the failed Bronze Age civilizations.  In a similar matter, the entire rest of the world sees the chaos in western civilization. 
Human group culture probably works the same as vaccines. You introduce just a bit to disgust the population and they grow an immunity to such things. I think that’s why the western civilization fell so fast, they’re like the native Americans, our species had 0 immunization defenses for ultra fast urbanization and wealth. We just didn’t know how to deal with so much fortune so fast and we went crazy. I hope out of this other civilizations especially the eastern ones can see what went wrong, get a bit of the virus themselves, and then gain an immunity to such things AND MOST IMPORTANTLY, carry on these lessons. Teach younger generations what happened here and why. The information transfer must be pristine. Or else everything we learned in the past can be lost in a single generation. The key difference between our civilization in the future and before it’s that things are constantly changing. Before, things didn’t really change at all so you can create a set of rules and itll generally work out for a long time. But now things will be constantly changing and whatever set of rules you did have and thought were good will might suck. So the key thing is adaptability. Whatever rules you set for society, whichever way you organize labor and resources into systems and institutions to optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs, it must be adaptable. You must be able to have a quick iteration loop where you monitor weaknesses or failure points, come up with a solution, quickly implement, and run the environment. Of course, by doing this you run into the danger of iterating towards a local optimum, or the iterations get so small it’s useless and more painful than it’s worth, in that case you are better off with redesigning the whole thing from scratch, much like how chip designers often did. Jim Keller thought you need to start from scratch every 5 years. You probably need to occasionally do the same for civilization, not every 5 years but for some amount of years. The eastern civilization has just gotten rich so the decadence and degeneracy is now starting to creep in. All of the elders know what it’s like to be truly poor, suffer hunger, and most importantly, war. They are the strong generation who created good times. The young now are in danger of serious degeneracy & decadence much like the west. I think as long as the old guard is around, so another 10-20 years the degeneracy won’t spike. But it is coming, unless society makes a serious effort to inoculate themselves. For example Tokyo Kids are  teens who run away from abusive homes, form groups, do drugs, teenage girls prostitute themselves and share money with the boys. This is actually happening right now. 


To think the title ASI is strictly meant for silicone artificial intelligence is a misconception. People today use the term ASI as if humans are done evolving. As if it's science fiction to enhance ourselves. Although I am writing “To ASI” more for myself than for a reader,  it is for a timeline where we humans have enhanced ourselves to be the ASI. The reason people today hope ASI will be this all knowing non-human entity that will lead and guide us to utopia is because we still fundamentally operate in an Abrahamic worldview. That we are helpless silly little humans who can only get to utopia by following god and his divine laws. Granted this worldview has been true and likely will remain true for a while due to the realities of human nature. But the time is coming when we will break free from our evolutionary biology and genuinely change human nature. Then we will truly experience free will. That will be a new world. Everything we knew about civilization, our relationship with society and each other, how we get our mass & energy, and what to do with mass & energy will have to be rewritten. ASI will be ourselves and we will build our utopia by human will. So to reach this goal, the prime directive of civilization is to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs.










Humanity


Throughout human history, what truly mattered? I’m sure so many people thought so many things were important. 






A at 




Youre trying to be too grandiose and serious and cool. Just free flow write like how you usually do. Something is different between your ntes and v1, youre trying to be too precise and accurate and right. Youre not writing a text book youre just writing your ideas. 




The prime directive of civilization is to organize labor and resources into systems and institutions that optimize the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. In other words, the best thing a group of people can do is organize themselves in ways to get mass & energy and do useful things with them. Throughout the course of human history most civilizations didn’t have a higher goal 










 Gauging the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs is the most pragmatic way to measure a civilization’s progress and prosperity. It’s also a useful tool to determine what course of action a civilization should take based on pragmatic metrics. If a civilization had a light in the sky that turns green or red, judging every decision a civilization makes as a net positive or net negative, it would be very useful. Too often policies are determined by ideology or special interest groups. How this makes me feel and if this makes me richer. A better standard would be judging every policy based on its net positive or net negative impact on civilization based on its effect on the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs of society.


///going to fast explain more/// 
Instead of bought out politicians and chin stroking economists trying to convince the population trickle-down economics works based on vibes and sound bites, it would’ve been much more pragmatic to measure its effectiveness based on the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs for civilization. Instead of offshoring the manufacturing base for balance sheet maxing, it would’ve been much more sensible to take into account the effects of the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Instead of hyper financializing the economy and misdirecting many bright minds into financial services, the overdose of easy money and misallocation of talent would’ve been caught sooner if society monitored the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Instead of GDP maxing and making housing take up more than ½ of income, price gouging healthcare until it became unaffordable without insurance, then jacking up insurance rates, and marking up education until it became unaffordable without loans, it would‘ve been nice if civilization had caught wind of these trends decades ago and made policy supporting or opposing such trends based on its effect on the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs of society.
///too fast, slow down///
In reality, the elites make most of the meaningful decisions in a civilization, not the general population. Whether it be the established elites or the rising elites, nothing really happens unless some of them push for it. Yes, a ⅓ of the colonial population wanted independence from Britain, but it only worked because some of colonial elites, like the founding fathers, wanted independence as well. If there were no colonial elites who wanted independence and it was just ⅓ of the population rebelling , it would’ve ended up being a peasant revolt that’d probably get shut down by the ruling elites. Google “successful peasant revolts” and you’ll see they have a very low success rate. These sort of things are usually successful only if some number of elites are backing it. 
Deep elite splits are one of the pre-conditions that reliably precede large-scale rebellions. The vast majority of successful revolutions, civil wars, movements, reform waves, or anything notable, really, usually hinge on defections or active sponsorship among people who already hold sizable control of resources, institutions, or influence. It’s very useful to view these events as elite competition, especially the struggle between the rising and established elites. 
The rising free trade merchants, Parliament, and Puritan reformers vs the established monopoly merchants, monarchy, and Church of England during the English Civil War. Elite aspirant bourgeois professionals (especially the lawyers), younger liberal nobles, merchants & bankers, and lower ranked military officers vs the established court aristocracy, high Catholic clergy,  high ranking generals, and monopoly merchants & traders during the French Revolution. Local Confucian landowners, free trade merchants, Han White Lotus/Red Turban religious elites, and Han militia officers vs. the established Mongol court, monopoly merchants, court Buddhist, and Chinese nobility benefiting from the Mongol system during the transition from Yuan to Ming dynasty. Rising religious elites, wealthy merchants vs Protestant monarchies vs Catholic monarchies vs territorial princes vs the Catholic Church during the Protestant Reformation. ///I want a Christianity spread in rome example/// 


Elite dynamics determine the movement of civilizations. 




 Thus, 99% of the population is irrelevant. The most they can do is collectively spawn some kind of emotion that the elites that can use to garner support for their endeavors. 


popular mobilisation was essential but not sufficient. What finished the job was:










It’s all so arduous, how we are at the whims of elites and their inter elite completions. It’d be so much nicer if the movement of society was based on improving the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs of society. 






Biological organisms tend to these outputs are very similar to organisms. If a collection of cells found a way to organize themselves into a digestive system, or brain, or heart wouldn’t that be considered a technology. If we managed to create these things that would be a technology. So cells do the same thing they organize their “labor” and resources into systems and institutions that optimizes the scientific, productive, and cell well-being outputs.  This is truly the point of civilization. 








The biggest bottleneck civilization faces now are no longer if we have enough mass & energy or the right technology. The bottleneck today is how effectively we organize ourselves in systems and institutions to do things. The bottleneck for civilization today is our culture.






The most blatant example today is North and South Korea. 




Despite  We seriously suck at forming the right systems and institutions, 




If you were in charge of a Stone Age tribe in 4000 BC, what series of actions would you take to develop that tribe into civilization like ours today?  It’s a similar question if you were a single called organisms what series of actions would you take to develop into a human being today?




The bottleneck in our civilization today is not how much mass & energy 




Organizing labor and resources into systems and institutions.




One of the greatest weaknesses of a civilization is its inability to adapt once its culture and systems and institutions become solidified. 


Iteration and plurality of power. 


Competition


Parameters on ideology 












It’s safe to say the majority of mass & energy gathered by civilization today is used inefficiently.






We can say the biggest difference between the United States today and let’s say, a Stone Age hunter & gatherer tribe, is their group of people’s scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. They just didn’t have the excess mass & energy needed to do anything else really. So we can say they were mass & energy constrained to produce much of any of these outputs. 


Same goes for the ancient Egyptian, ancient Chinese, Greeks, Romans, 




Implore deeper how these civilizational outputs prevents entropy by giving civilization a goal.














 As far as we know, this universe consists of properties presenting itself as mass and energy, and the laws governing how they interact with each other. When a structure of atoms becomes conducive to getting mass and energy and using it in ways to propagate itself, we call this phenomenon life. The reason why life, or anything at all, emerged is up to your personal belief. Through the Lord’s will or by emergent properties, one way or another life emerged and the ones still here today, concerned itself with survival and reproduction because the ones that didn’t, simply ceased to or never existed. Being at the right place at the right time to facilitate life, Earth teemed with intercompeting species fighting for mass and energy, and learning better ways to use them. There, we emerged. 
We came about when our specific pattern of atoms was able to use mass and energy in ways to propagate itself, improve itself, get more mass and energy, etc. Basic organic functions. Again, all organisms on Earth have these basic functions because the patterns of atoms that did not do this died off. If Earth was a PvE server, we might’be been able to end it here. However, Earth is a PvPvE server. In our finite world, organisms must compete with members of their own species and other species. When everyone else gets better and better at getting their resources and propagating, if a species does not adapt and improve improves itself, it will get less resources and propagate less. So the cheetahs got faster, the giraffes got taller, immune systems got better, our brains got better, etc. This is simply what happens in a PvPvE server and the ones that did not adapt and improve died off. 
All of the traits and characteristics we developed that were good enough to help us survive or weren’t bad enough to kill us off were encoded onto our genes. This information largely determines all of our physical characteristics, including all the structures and systems of the brain or anything else associated with it. Since the structure of neurons, system of neurotransmitters, regulation of hormones, etc are all largely formed by genetics, and all cognition comes from the dynamic interactions between them, much of human nature is hardware defined. Our 5 senses are hardware defined. If I’m seeing or hearing something, I literally can’t turn it off even if I wanted to. In the same way, if the right emotional buttons are pressed, I literally can’t stop feeling love, fear, anger, sadness, joy, the need to mate, etc even if I wanted to. We can only suppress it, convince ourselves to ignore it, or not act on it, but we will always feel it to some degree. While these are some of the most primal parts of human nature we developed to help us survive and compete, as time went on we found the benefits of working together and community as a new local optimum to get mass and energy. 
Thus, human nature changed as selection pressure preferences for hardware went from just animals to social animals. So now, social inclinations and traits are ingrained into us as much as the primal emotions. Loneliness, community, fairness, reciprocity, authority, compassion, betrayal, trust, friendship. These aspects of human nature formed during our time as tribal hunters & gatherers. This new local optimum, which was our specie’s state of the art tactic to help us get mass and energy, drives most of the mechanisms of our civilization today. 
Culture doesn't exist with just one person. Culture only exists when there are multiple people and so only emerged after we became social then tribal. Once you have multiple people working together in groups there needs to be a shared idea of what we’re doing and why. For a tribe, it’s working together to get more mass and energy than we’d get ourselves, help each other out, fight predators, and win against other humans. It’s a pretty great new local optimum our ancestors found. It probably wasn’t easy at first, because the first ones to do so were probably literally monkeys. But they’d soon run into the problem, that they are monkeys and it’s hard to get monkeys to work together when you have a bunch of limbic system primal emotions like fear and anger. So, a culture is a great way to get different nodes who inherently care more about themselves and their offspring a lot more than the group, to work together. For humans, culture answers: What is the truth and the framework of how the world works, how to get our mass & energy, what to do with mass & energy, how to allocate it, and how to stay together as a coherent group despite our limbic system impulses. So from there you form ceremonies to do activities together to feel like one group, you have social hierarchy to organize people, you want to transfer information from one generation to the next so you form pantheons and myths, time to time you’ll have a shitty leader who will tell the population to do dumb stuff so you have culture and religion to convey wisdom from the past to keep the tribe in the right course. Let’s say the river floods once every 200 years. You get wrecked the first time, then you say the gods do it and you form a culture to reflect that, 190 years later a leader comes in says let’s live closer to the river so we don’t have to walk far for water,, the people say no the gods say no and our culture of keeping the water holy and untouched must be maintained, no one listens to authority despite being predisposed to obeying authority, it acts on information passed down from the far past, doesn’t live next to the river, river floods and no one dies. This is essentially where myths come from. So if you’re going to operate on an authority hive mind structure, you have counterweight to the occasional stupid leader by the wisdom of your ancestors. As tribes formed to clans and then civilizations, these myths started to encompass morality and how to behave yourself. Then when there were too many conflicting godsam all telling you different things, monotheism came in and others during the axial age. 
Civilizations are not easy to form and didn’t just come about as a natural progression of things. Things don’t have to progress. We still see small organisms, bacteria, etc that never evolved into anything else. There had to be a very good reason to get a bunch of nomadic hunters & gatherers to become settled peoples. Farming is much harder, the fields of the crops couldn’t have been that great at the time. There’s a great quote that we did not domesticate plants, they domesticated us. Now there’s an argument it was religion. There’s an argument it was irrigation for water. I personally believe people don’t really change their entire way of life unless they absolutely had to, so my guess it was vital for how they get their mass and energy. So I like the water irrigation argument. So this is the new local optimum for getting our mass and energy. Growing plants. Once farming got good, the population grew. There was even excess mass and energy. Then some of the smarter ones realized they didn’t want to work hard on the fields all day, they wanted others to do it for them and still eat but not be called lazy or parasites. So they used our tendency to adhere to authority, our need to organize and work well together, to become priests, or scribes, or land owners etc. The smart ones do not want to be farmers. Then you have social classes and elites and greed. Meanwhile, we still have that limbic system, primal emotion hardware, that never went away. We have these newfound social and community aspects of human nature. So you see greed, envy, seeking status, group approval, ambition, etc. So now forms some of the most important factors that drive populations that’s actually the same stuff we’ve been doing as animals and tribes and now: How much mass & energy a civilization produces, what to do with it, and how to allocate it. That is why we became tribes and civilizations and formed cultures in the first place, it’s fundamentally because we believe we are better off working together than working alone. So when there is not enough mass & energy to go around, when there is enough but the social elites hog it all, it’s not distributed well, and amongst the social elite they don’t like the distribution either, or when people feel like they’re not benefitting from he civilization, when they feel like they’re putting more work than others, if civilizations diverges in culture and now we don’t agree on things, civilizations come under stress because people question subconsciously the underlying principles of civilization.


I am 100% driven by spite and insecurity along with passion and purpose. 


Culture is the shared framework of what is true, how to get mass and energy, what to do with mass and energy, and how to allocate it. 




Culture revolves around your source of mass and energy and is the guiding system on how to use and allocate them. Instead of 








Animals can do services for us and don’t take money. So there is some possibility for nature to come up with structures and systems for us to work together and do things for each other with little concept of property rights or whatever. Sure, im sure there exists some possible pattern of mass and energy where this can be naturally possible. I mean I think trees share resources and stuff. But we did not evolve this way. This is not our evolutionary tree and we don’t have the technology to change our nature. It’s not a society or social construct problem, its a biological/physics problem. So stop trying to change our society for your delusions you marxists. 


Have 




There is literally nothing we can do, only suppress it or convince ourselves to ignore it. But we will always feel it. 


Physics -> biology -> human nature -> hunter gatherers & their culture -> civilization & its culture
Were monkeys trying to make civilization work. 










Emotions like love, fear, anger, sadness, etc are so deeply embedded within us because these emotions are the adaptations we developed to help us survive and compete. They were developing before we were even human. Because they are hardware defined we couldn’t turn them off even if we wanted to. 




The mechanisms allowing us to feel these emotions are defined by genetics, thus are hardware defined






Until recently most human medicine or psychology or economics or media or movies, or writing, or whatever basically tries to provide inputs to innate human biology or human nature to get the output we want. For example vaccinations works with our biological systems. Stem cell treatment works with out biological systems. Most medicine uses some part of a premade biological system and uses it to our advantage. The only medicine that is not is something like surgery. 


The woke left was anti mother and anti childbirth, if you were young between 2010-2020 don’t even try to deny it. We were all there. It was very subtle but you know in your heart they were trying to discourage motherhood and childbirth. You know it. Just look at the people who don’t like t




It wasn’t some special diet why some teenagers compete at math olympiads and others do not, you just had to be born with it to compete at their level at their age. Do you think this differentiation just magically disappears in schools. There is always 


Babies learn their behavior. From a few months to 4 or 5. Imagine a video camera thats just on you and then takes all the sound and video inputs and influences the development of the baby’s brain. We think just because they cant talk or think they don’t know what going on but how you behave, if you seem violent or calm or use loud voicse or how you react to things. They 100% internalize them and some internal brain mechanism adjusts the developing brain to fit the environment. If you have a low stress tolerance and start to crash out even a little bit like a dropped plate or yelling at the tv when the team scores. Your baby has internal mechanisms to wire its brain as it develops to react and do similar levels of stress tolerance. 1000000% chance. So when you have kids never act scared, never act anxious, never yell, etc. Your child is a camera to its developing neural network and will internalize and change its brain to any and all visual and audio inputs. 




When I am by myself I do not have a culture. When I am with others there is a culture. Culture is our system to get mass and energy and what to do with it. 


Even if you argue the environment can literally shape our brain and neuroplasticity, its wishful thinking on display. Any way the brain rewires itself due to any environment is determined by the innate algorithm determined by genetics. The way the brain changes itself when in response to the environment is determined genetically. The mechanisms underlying neuroplasticity is determined by genetics. Yes you can work out and eat and what not but the mechanisms of how fat builds up 






and this is controversial in my time, but determines you psychological characteristics as well.  


Human nature as we know it today formed after some time as a good enough way to get mass and energy and do things with it in a competitive, PvPvE environment. 


Human nature is hardware defined and drives most of your daily life, your beliefs, your actions, almost every second of how you spend your time on Earth is derived from human nature. It is unequivocally the fundamental building block of human civilization. It’s core mission, risen from the necessities and struggle of survival and competition, is to get you to do things based on inputs from the environment. The red pill is that underlying mechanisms have more command over your life than you’d like to think.








We are barely rational, we operate like a instructor vehicle where we have control and drive around but something else can come in an override our controls. 


One of the flaws of Abrahamic religions it pushes the view of a soul or a self that has command and queries the brain to do things for it. When in reality it is the other way around. It is becoming increasingly clear that humans are barely rational


Culture is the most important differentiating factor for human civilizations.  Not weather, not genetics, not environment. Culture is today’s bottle neck. 


Why did we lock down, elite dynamics, why do we get swayed into war, why do let politicians run our country to the ground, etc. 




Physics -> Biology -> human nature -> culture










 These might be very obvious examples, but these mechanics are how you live out 90 - 99% of your time every day. Humans are barely conscious and rational. 










The need for community, love, empathy, compassion, status, greed, tribalism, 








In the process of getting mass and energy and intercompetition, we unlocked traits in our culture tree in a highly social direction, and it ended up working really well for us. Human nature 








Then we got smarter.  Rumor has it someone ate something that made them smarter and know the difference between good and evil. Morality is a human construct.


Now, to the extent of improvement we see today is remarkable. There must be something we’re missing or not understanding because the brain, eyes, immune system are really really good and its unbelievable to think these things can emerge on its own with out selection pressures.




Earth is a PvPvE server. It is you 


Cultures revolve around your source of mass and energy and enemies much like animals evolved around their source of mass and energy and predators. The Asians are Asians, the Europeans are Europeans, and middle easterners are middle easterners despite stemming from a common ancestors because over time these groups of humans have evolved biologically and culturally to optimize for their source of mass and energy, their environment, and enemies. 




Have we ever sat down to think how the state taking 30-40% of your income is insane. On a historical level this is extremely high and we’re just ok with this? The state and bureaucracy has clearly gotten too powerful.




The reason why civilizations lose is because they win for too long. Same reason why even if you win and become a billionaire your kids can be spoiled rotten. If someone wins the bodybuilding world championship they can stop working out and eat junk food all day. If its already hard for you to remain disciplined, to not be arrogant, to keep working out and going to the gym, if it already so hard to stay wealthy from generation to generation, for companies to remain on top over decades. It is way way harder for winning civilizations to keep winning because its people stop going to the gym because they think theyve won. Population forge tabout the morals and lessons and the systems and institutions that got them there in the first place.




So we can see when trying to accomplish something we have to operate at the highest abstraction levels of the dynamics human group systems and institutions having difficulty talking to the physics layer. Like different layers of the stack have trouble talking to each other it gets really complicated. So you have this system where people need to operate from the highest abstraction layer of human institutions and systems to work with individual psychology and economics to work get our biology to work with physics.All the meanwhile all the nodes having extremely limited information bandwidth and throughout and limited cognitive ability while constantly interchanging the nodes who face information loss at every change leading to intense information loss and decay over generations so leading systems and institutions degrade in quality within a generation. It’s madness. 
There’s so many barriers to progress established by ourselves. 
Most people were just doing things that they felt was right and sometimes they happen to be the right choices to make progress happen, but it was mostly accidental and through self belief. 


Thank you, please, it’s ok are words the woke don’t have in their vocabulary. Mr Beast donates water wells to thirsty Africans and provides maintenance training. Magatte Wade: “if Mr beast genuinely wants to help Africa, he could direct his enormous resources and influence toward enabling African solutions rather than importing western ones”. Basically, fuck you white guy. FYI I’m not white, but how are you supposed to take these people seriously. Literally what incentives do you put in place to get certain demographics to like your side. It’s insane and if you’ve taken the red pill and out of the matrix, you’ll see how utterly insane our era’s ideologies and principles are. No thank you, no please, no manners. They don’t deserve anything, only act as plagues hampering the rest of us from manikin’s progress. They will be stopped, and their degeneracy studied well to prevent it from happening again. Oh by the way, that entire video is fake. Completely fabricated. Why do you rbi k the best journalists are going solo with their own channels. Why am I supposed to believe anything you have to say establishment?


History should be one of the most important topics alongside math/science because there are a series of things the people in a civilization did to win or lose. The Muslims did something to win 600-1200 then did stuff that made them lose after. Europeans did things that got them the Industrial Revolution, agricultural revolution, and scientific revolution, then are doing things making them lose now. A population, especially a democracy, needs to m is the factor of things that goes into making and sustaining a successful civilization and what things make a civilization lose. It’s such a basic concept that should be as vital as knowing the periodic table or reading a book. How did we ever think its ok to have a democracy, but not educate its people what’re the factors that goes into winning or losing said nation you vote in? Is this not insane, that people have no idea how the Roman’s, Muslims, Europeans, Chinese rose and fell and yet are expected to make good decisions in their own civilization? It’s like given a car to drive but you have no idea what makes a good or bad drivers. This is why you want good players in your team, you can not allow bad players to come in or stay. This is a competition and we want to win. 




If it’s true that the civil war was fought over slavery, that means there were a lot of northern American that honorably fought in the civil war were much more brave and social justice then you putting pronouns on your bio. 
Academia has no real competition within it just rivalries, everyone has to be nice to each other and be in group, can’t start too far from consensus and progresses in these smaller steps. Old habits.
Covid was the greatest example of herd mentality and future generations will laugh at our hysteria. A 0.01% fatality rate pre vaccine amongst an obese, sleep deprived, and mentally unstable society. It was nothing, and the hysteria and mob mentality was so strong even North Korea quarantine and ANY and I do mean ANY criticism or the elite’s and academia’s word was seen as heresy. It really opened my eyes that we live in a highly centralized bureaucratic society where information is controlled by a few, not unlike Soviet Russia or the books I read on Fahrenheit 451 or George Orwell 1984 which were part of the school curriculum. Ontop of it all the elites were incompetent and clearly had no mechanism for truth, only group conformity. I wonder how many doctors and scientists refused to speak out against the unnecessary prolonging of lockdowns because of their career, their institutional reputation, and etc. 2020-2021 broke the cultural veil and when many took the red pill and edited this bureaucratic matrix. That the established elites, you are hysterical, you don’t pursue truth, and have no mechanism to admit that you’re wrong. I still haven’t heard an apology from the CDC. Then it makes you wonder, what else have these conformists mislead us about. If these same class of people were this wrong about disease what else could they be wrong about? Turns out its not necessarily that some research are outright false, thank god, but likely severely hampered, it’s just not good research. It’s like when. I am not a scientist but a monkey can see bureaucracy and the stifling air in parts of academia. A non famous academic can not get funding unless the research is within a comfortable distance from consensus. 


They can’t tell their own people when to stop. 


The Matrix is our era of civilization’s false beliefs of reality because we got too rich.  Have you seen these photos of different prison cells in different countries. These images are only confusing if you’re still in the Matrix and believe that all people are the same and there is no innate differences between people regardless of race, culture, and genetics. 
Another crock of shit is that relationships and marriages are 50/50. Pretty profoundly stupid and can only have stemmed from Communist beliefs. 










Life is rare, intelligent life even rarer, and civilization excruciatingly rare. An enlightened, thriving civilization might be the rarest phenomena in the universe. 


Each structure of matter, from no structures to organized life are different local optimums.














That is our origin, emerging from endless struggle and desperation to win.






1848 revolutionary hot spots across europe : photo
1930s communism movement in america, but not very popular or super influential.






















The grand story of the human race is, like any biological organism, about getting mass and energy and doing useful things with them. The trend the past few thousand years and why we enjoy our modern standard of living, is we got more and more mass and energy, and used it in better and better ways to better our understanding of the universe, to make more and better things that we want, and make us live better lives. The first local optimum is doing what every other organism is doing to barely survive and reproduce. Then we found a better local optimum with agricultural based societies after going through several generations of water crises that forced our ancestors to settle down and irrigate rivers. Then after a few thousand years we broke out our non-progress loop through the scientific and industrial revolution and now we find ourselves in our current local optimum and current scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Each step of the way we found new systems and institutions that better served our needs. We may not have evolved as much biologically the past few thousand years but we have significantly culturally. What’s the difference between a stone age society, vs the ancient Egyptians, vs the ancient Greeks or Romans or Chinese or Ottomans or British to our modern civilizations? The main differences as you may now guess, is the difference between our technology, scientific knowledge, the advanced products and services and the quantity, increased lifespan, likelihood of a violent death or disease, infancy mortality rates. The cultural technologies to maintain civilization and prevent information loss. Culture of civility, the belief of progress and improvement. 




I gave myself purpose because I am alive. 




If you were transplanted onto a Native American tribe in 4000 BC, and you were immortal, what would be the series of steps you’d have to take to develop this group of natives into our civilization today? (aka the starting scenario of Civilization games) Essentially you’d want to organize the tribe into systems and institutions that will most effectively use labor and resources to dramatically increase the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. Peering throughout human history, 


Peering throughout human history, most civilizations didn’t really do anything meaningful. Most were just trying to survive. Some managed to conquer their neighbors, build a few nice monuments and cities, maybe a few chads emerged and did cool stuff, and eventually fall. 99% of the mass and energy, intelligence, and labor exerted by humans for thousands of years before the Scientific and Industrial revolutions did essentially nothing to really progress mankind in any meaningful way. For the longest time our species was just trying to survive. We were stuck in this loop of non-progress for a really long time. Most species on Earth are currently stuck in this local optimum. Then through water issues and the need to work together to irrigate rivers we started farming and iterated to a new local optimum that is agriculture and then civilizations. Then we were stuck in a non-progress loop for a few thousand years again then found a new local optimum with the scientific and industrial revolutions. That is when our scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs really started to increase in a meaningful way. This is what is truly important. Imagine people in ancient Egypt, China, Romans, whoever. Imagine all of the little stuff they must’ve talked about or done. How many of that actually ended up mattering? So many people thought so many things were important. When really the only meaningful thing that mattered was are you tangibly increasing the scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs. This may be an incredibly utilitarian view and soulless, but if we became very advanced and searched and found various underdeveloped intelligent life, what metrics would be use to describe their current level of development. We would measure their current scientific level and the rate it is changing. The level of engineering, the products they are making in what quantities, and level of industry, basically industrial output. Then maybe the level of civility, ability to work together, death rates, crime rates, nutrition rates, just general metrics of their specie’s well-being. I mean this is honestly an accurate way to measure developing countries today. This is what really matters. This is what really makes a difference. Yet even today, most of the mass and energy, thought, labor and actions done by most people today are not doing anything tangible to increase our scientific, productive, or human well-being outputs. How many people will just live, die, and not really make a difference aside from having children? We are still maybe at sub 10% of all mass and energy exerted by humans that goes towards increasing the scientific, produciotve, and human well-being outputs. Most of our society is still geared towards maintaining society, while very few of us act as the tip of the spear. A good metric for a civilization, ours, a developing country, or aliens would be to see what % of all mass and energy exerted goes towards tangibly increasing their scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs.  










 Law, property rights, currency, markets, the scientific method, Capitalism, strong family units, a culture of individual endeavors




Strong family values, a culture of progress, individual endeavors for the good of society, currency, law, 






The ensuing economic, political, cultural, social, 






 to dramatically increase their scientific, productive, and human well-being outputs






Many religious, philisophical, political, and economic system throughout human history was ultimately about improving at least one of these outputs.






The main bottle neck our specie faces today are is how we organize ourselves into systems and institutions   not longer , but how we organize ourselves into systems and institutions to do things. Our technology has largely outpaced our culture, social systems, and institutions’ ability to wield it effectively. They are now in desperate need to catch up. This is genuinely a serious problem. The reason why Californian rail projects, Boeing planes, the healthcare system, and various third world countries are failing is largely because of our specie’s awful trackrecord of maintaining competent systems and institutions through time largely due to information loss. Human systems and institutions are just not good at scaling, suffer from information loss after a few generations, and have largely improved mostly through ____ unintentionally setting rules based on the benefactor at the time ___ and it just so happened to work for Europe to spark and maintain the industrial and scientific revolutions.




 It’s 100% possible to do these things well and the fact we aren’t living up to what’s possible is holding us back so much. That’s why we have these rough civilizational cycles of rise, peaking, then gradual decline with self correcting and self regulating dynamics revolving around population growth and the distribution of resources to the population. The that distribution is good, things are good you know, the mass and energy is going to the right places to keep the civilizational machine running smoothly. But it always eventually goes bad. The ability to maintain it degrades, some through information loss but almost always by the faults in our nature. Wealth disparity gets too high, wage stagnates, elite overproduction. Peter Turchin and David Hackett Fisher do great work around this topic. These civilizational dynamics have been ongoing throughout human history and is precisely why western civilization finds itself in this climate today.